WELCOME TO THE
OCTOBER 17TH REGULAR MEETING
OF THE REPLANNING COMMISSION
FOR DETAILED INFORMATION ON
MEETING PROCEDURES, PLEASE
REVIEW THE FULL PRINTED MEETING
AGENDA PROVIDED MISKELLY WILL
YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
CLEARLY HERE.
THANKS FOR APRON'S THE
SECRETARY WAS HERE.
HORMEL'S HERE JOHN
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE CAST MEMBER
DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER SOUTHEY HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARK WEATHERBEE
HERE YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
FIRST COMMISSIONER MILLS AND
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DESH
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
HI.
AND HE OPPOSED KERRY'S MINUTES
OF THE PREVIOUS MEETING.
I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES OF OCTOBER 3RD MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER NILS
AND DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR I
AND HE OPPOSED I A MOTION
CARRIES.
NEXT UP OUR REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO REPORT
TO
?
WHERE IS MY DOCUMENT?
I THINK I REMEMBER IT SO LAST
NIGHT A CITY COUNCIL VOTED TO
ANNEX THE TWO PARCELS ON
RIVERSIDE AVENUE OR DRIVE
WHICHEVER IT IS AND WE ALSO
VOTED TO APPROVE THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE
ROAD TOWNHOMES AND I THINK
THAT'S ALL.
THANK YOU, MISS KELLY, DO YOU
HAVE A REPORT?
I DO ON THE 12TH OF OCTOBER
THERE WAS A PLYMOUTH ROAD AREA
REZONING PUBLIC MEETING FOR THE
REZONING TO TAKE ONE AT THE
TREVOR WOOD BRANCH OF THE ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC LIBRARY.
THERE ARE ABOUT FORTY ATTENDEES
INCLUDING COUNCIL MEMBERS SONG
AND WATSON ROBUST DEBATE AND WE
LOOK FORWARD TO ADVANCING THAT
TO THE PLANET MISSION TABLE
NEXT MONTH AND ALSO NEXT MONTH
TARGETING MID NOVEMBER PENDING
LOCATION WILL BE SCHEDULING THE
COMPLEMENTARY MEETING FOR THE
WASHTENAW CORRIDOR SO THERE
WILL BE FORTHCOMING INFORMATION
ABOUT ATC ONE WASHTENAW AVENUE
AREA REZONING PUBLIC MEETING
FORTHCOMING.
ALSO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
STEERING COMMITTEE INTEREST
SURVEY CLOSED YESTERDAY WITH
OVER ONE HUNDRED APPLICATIONS
AND MANAGER LENAR WILL BE
SENDING NOTICE FOR PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING THIS WEEK
TO REVIEW NEXT STEPS.
BUT I CAN TELL YOU THAT THAT
MEETING WILL BE TAKING PLACE
OF THE USUAL OAC SUBCOMMITTEE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE
SUBCOMMITTEE AND SO IT WILL BE
NEXT TUESDAY FROM SEVEN TO NINE
P.M. THANK YOU.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
OR COMMITTEE LIAISONS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ARE INCLUDED IN
TODAY'S PACKET.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION, THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING A PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS NINE
ASTAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE IT RAISE HANDS,
FEATURE A VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS WHO HAVE RAISED
THEIR HANDS USING THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
FOR THOSE ACCESSING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA, MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS AND IS THERE
ANYONE PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
SEE, NO ONE IS THERE ANYONE
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION REMOTELY?
PRAVEEN SWAMI, YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
HELLO.
I LIVE IN A COMMUNITY WITH THE
POPULATION THE PRESENT YOU UP
EXCUSE I'M SO SORRY THIS IS
REGARDING ITEMS THAT ARE NOT ON
THIS AGENDA SO YOU'LL HAVE A
CHANCE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PARTICULAR MATTER IN JUST A FEW
MINUTES.
OK, THANK YOU
.
JUST GIVING IT ONE MOMENT.
YEAH NO PROBLEM.
THERE WAS ONE OTHER HENDRY'S
BUT IT LOOKS LIKE THEY HAVE
LOWERED THEIR HAND SO WITH THAT
I BELIEVE THAT WE HAVE NO HANDS
RAISED UNLESS UM PROVIDED YOU
DON'T HAVE A DO YOU HAVE A
GENERAL PUBLIC COMMENT TO MAKE
OR ARE YOU RAISING YOUR HAND
FOR THE PUBLIC HEARING LATER ON
THE HEARING?
>> OK, IN THAT CASE THERE ARE
NO HANDS RAISED.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING.
STASS
A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE
FOLLOWING ITEMS WILL BE HELD BY
THE INTERIOR PLANNING
COMMISSION ON WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 1ST AT SEVEN PM THERE
IS A REVISED NOTICE FOR THIRTY
EIGHT SEVENTY FOUR RESEARCH
PARK DRIVE A SITE PLAN FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS WAS ERRONEOUSLY NOTICED
FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL AND
SO IT IS RE NOTICED IT IS A
PROPOSAL TO CONSTRUCT A ONE
HUNDRED AND TEN THOUSAND EIGHT
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT OFFICE
RESEARCH AND LAB SPACE AS THE
SECOND PHASE OF A TWO HUNDRED
AND FORTY ONE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT PROJECT.
THERE IS A NEW SEVENTY SEVEN
SPACE PARKING LOT ALSO PROPOSED
ON THIS RESEARCH DISTRICT AND
OFFUT OFFICE RESEARCH LIMITED
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT ZONED SITE
WHICH TOTALS SIXTEEN POINT NINE
ACRES THE SECOND FINAL ITEM
NOTICE FOR A PUBLIC HEARING IS
THE PLYMOUTH ROAD TRANSIT WATER
DISTRICT ZONING.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION WILL
HOLD A PUBLIC HEARING TO HEAR
ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN A
PROPOSED REZONING WHICH IS AN
AMENDMENT TO THE ZONING MAP
SECTION FIVE POINT TEN POINT
TWO OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
DEVELOPMENT CODE TO REZONE
PARCELS IN THE PLYMOUTH ROAD
AREA TO SEE ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT BEFORE MAKING
A RECOMMENDATION TO CITY
COUNCIL.
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR IS
CONSIDERING ACTION TO REZONE
APPROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY SIX ACRES INCLUDING AT
LEAST NINETY NINE ADDRESSES AND
TEXT PARCELS IN THE PLYMOUTH
ROAD AREA.
MORE INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE
AT PLANNED EIGHT TO GOV.
AGOUTIS ONE CORRIDOR'S THANK
YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO ITEM
EIGHT A UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
THIS IS THIRTY FIVE TWENTY
MARINE CORPS PLAN UNIT
DEVELOPMENT TAX AMENDMENT FOR
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THE PROPOSED AMENDED
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WILL
EXPAND THE PERMITTED PRINCIPAL
USES OF THE THE PERMITTED
PRINCIPAL USES WOULD INCLUDE
MEDICAL DENTAL OFFICES WHICH
ARE CURRENTLY PROHIBITED AND
WOULD EXPAND THE DEFINITION
OF HOTEL AND CURRENTLY
RESTRICTS HOTEL DEVELOPMENTS TO
EXTENDED STAYS WITH ONE HUNDRED
ROOMS MAXIMUM CAPACITY AND
WOULD PERMIT DEVELOPMENT
OF MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
HOUSING WHICH IS CURRENTLY
EXCLUDED.
THIS PUDI DISTRICT INCLUDES
THIRTY FIVE POINT SIX ACRES.
THIS IS SLATED FOR POSTPONEMENT
SO WE'RE GOING TO GO THROUGH A
PUBLIC HEARING ON THIS
PARTICULARLY YES BECAUSE IT IS
NOTICE IT'S A CHANCE FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO WEIGH
IN.
HOWEVER, THE PETITIONER HAS
IDENTIFIED THAT THEY ARE STILL
CONSIDERING THE COMMISSION'S
FEEDBACK WITH THE OWNER GROUP
OF THE OTHER PARCELS IN THE
PUDI AND ARE NOT WOULD
APPRECIATE THE POSTPONEMENT
THAT IT UNDERSTOOD.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS.
WE'LL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
PHRASE AND FEATURE OF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK AND FOR
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL 877
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEETING EIGHTY
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HANDS USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME THAT'S
AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THE HOST
IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK AND
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND
AGAIN FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE HERE THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
MR. GARBER, I HAVE A PROCEDURAL
QUESTION.
I'VE ALREADY SPOKEN ON THIS
PROJECT LAST TIME.
WILL THERE BE A PUBLIC HEARING
IN TWO WEEKS WHEN THIS COMES
BACK AND TYPICALLY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION DOES OFFER A RENEWED
OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
AND I WOULD EXPECT THE SAME
THING BECAUSE IT'S GOING TO BE
A NEW PLAN ANYWAY.
SO THAT MAKES SENSE.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S MY QUESTION.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THANK YOU.
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
COMMISSION?
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
THAT'S THE ANYONE IS THERE
COMMISSION?
ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
THAT'S THE ANYONE IS THERE
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION REMOTELY
ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
?
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION REMOTELY
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED, MR.
?
CHAIR.
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED, MR.
THANK YOU.
CHAIR.
THERE'S THREE PROPOSED THERE'S
THANK YOU.
A MOTION TO POSTPONE THE
THERE'S THREE PROPOSED THERE'S
NOVEMBER FIRST REGULAR SESSION
A MOTION TO POSTPONE THE
.
NOVEMBER FIRST REGULAR SESSION
DO WE HAVE A MOTION MOTION BY
.
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST SECONDED BY
DO WE HAVE A MOTION MOTION BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS' DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST SECONDED BY
OF THE PROPOSED MOTION
?
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S DO A VOICE VOTE WITHOUT
OBJECTION OR SHALL WE DO A
VOICE VOTE FOR THIS?
I THINK IT WOULD BE FINE TO SAY
WITHOUT OBJECTION THAT MOTION
PASSES IF SOMEONE HAS AN
OBJECTION WHEN THAT IS PHRASED
IT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE TO
RAISE AN OBJECTION.
THANK YOU.
WITHOUT OBJECTION THAT MOTION
PASSES ALL RIGHT.
IT IS POSTPONED TO THE NOVEMBER
FIRST REGULAR SESSION WHEN TO
MOVE ON TO REGULAR BUSINESS
SECTION NINE A THIS IS THIRTY
EIGHT SEVENTY FOUR RESEARCH
PARK DRIVE SARTORIUS PHASE TWO
THIS IS A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
WE DID JUST RE NOTICE THIS
BASED ON THE ERRONEOUS NOTICING
THAT THIS WOULD BE FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THIS IS ACTUALLY FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PHASE TWO PROPOSAL TO
CONSTRUCT ONE HUNDRED TEN
THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET BUILDING ADDITION TO AN
EXISTING BUILDING AND SEVENTY
SEVEN NEW PARKING SPACES WITH
TWO NEW CURB CUTS OF RESEARCH
PARK DRIVE WE ARE LOOKING TO
POSTPONE BUT THE FIRST WE WILL
GO TO PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED SITE
PLAN WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT AND THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS IF
LISTENING BY PHONE PLEASE PRESS
NINE OR USE THE PHRASE
HANDPICKED FEATURE VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK AND THEN
PHONE ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTINY TELEVISION BACKGROUND
NOISES WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
AGAIN.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
?
THANK YOU CHARLIE CAN GAPPER
TWENTY EIGHT HILCORP AGAIN
PROCEDURE WE'RE NOT GOING TO
HAVE A PETITIONER PRESENTATION
OR STAFF.
WE ARE PROCEEDING PUBLIC.
THAT'S CORRECT.
IT'S GOING TO BE HELD ALL
TOGETHER AT THE NEXT MEETING.
NEXT REGULAR MEETING.
OK, I'LL SAY MY PIECE NOW THEN.
THANK YOU LAST THE GERMAN
PARLIAMENT PASSED A LAW
REQUIRING ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION
TO BE TO HAVE TO HAVE SIXTY
FIVE PERCENT RENEWABLE ENERGY
COMPONENT.
THIS PROJECT OBVIOUSLY WOULD
NOT EVEN COME CLOSE TO GETTING
THERE.
SARTORIUS A GERMAN COMPANY I
WANT TO PUSH BACK ON THE NOTION
THAT CERTAIN MEDICAL BUILDINGS
CAN'T GO ALL ELECTRIC.
YES, THERE'S A PROBLEM WITH AIR
EXCHANGE FREQUENCY AND THE NEED
TO HEAT OR COOL ALL THAT
INCOMING FRESH AIR BILLIONAIRE
WHO'S A CONSULTANT TO SARTORIUS
TOLD COUNSEL BACK IN APRIL THAT
THESE LAB BUILDINGS WORK TWENTY
FOUR HOURS A DAY.
THEY NEVER GO DOWN.
THEY NEVER HAVE AN OFF SEASON.
THEY BASICALLY ARE FUNCTIONING
AT FULL AIRFLOW ALL THE TIME TO
GET THE AIR CHANGED PER HOUR
THAT ARE REQUIRED BY THE CODE .
YES, YOU HAVE TO DESIGN THAT.
BUT REGS DO SPECIFY FOUR TO
TWELVE AIR CHANGES PER HOUR FOR
ACTIVE FUME HOODS BUT NOTHING
IN REGS THAT SAYS YOU HAVE TO
RUN THESE HOODS ALL THE TIME
UNLESS DESTROYING TOXIC
SUBSTANCES.
WHAT WE HEARD TWENTY FOUR SEVEN
OPERATIONS IS NOW CONSIDERED
OUTDATED PRACTICE AND HIGHLY
WASTEFUL.
SOME OF THE NEW PRACTICES ARE
ONE VENTURI VALVES WHICH REDUCE
AIRFLOW TO A MINIMUM WHEN THE
HOODS ARE NOT IN USE TO TURNING
DOWN THE AIRFLOW IN LABS WHEN
THEY'RE NOT OCCUPIED.
PUTTING THE VENTILATION SYSTEM
INTO VACANCY MODE HOOD
HIBERNATION WHERE THE ENTRY
VALVES CONTROL FUME HOODS
INDIVIDUALLY INSTEAD OF BANKS
OF THEM AND FUME HOODS.
INSTEAD OF SENDING THE FUMES
OUTSIDE THEY RUN THROUGH A
FILTER AND THEN RECIRCULATED.
NOT ALL OF THESE SOLUTIONS
CAN
ALWAYS BE USED BUT IF THEY WERE
DESIGNED INTO THE BUILDING THEY
CAN GREATLY LOWER ENERGY USE
AND REDUCE THE NEED FOR
CONSTANT AIR EXCHANGE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT SARTORIUS HAS
CONSIDERED OR IS EVEN AWARE
OF THESE INNOVATIONS BUT OTHER
NEW LAB BUILDINGS IN COLD
CLIMATES ARE DOING THIS AND
SOME HAVE BEEN ABLE TO GO ALL
ELECTRIC USING GEOTHERMAL
COUPLED WITH HEAT PUMPS.
THESE INCLUDE ST. JOHN'S
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SCIENCES
CENTER IN NEW YORK.
THE INTEGRATED SCIENCE FACILITY
AT CARLETON COLLEGE, MINNESOTA
AND OTHERS.
YES, DOING THIS IS MORE
EXPENSIVE UP FRONT BUT SARTORIS
GETTING A LOT OF HELP FROM
TAXPAYERS A TWELVE YEAR FIFTY
PERCENT TAX ABATEMENT THAT I
CALCULATE SHOULD BE WORTH ABOUT
THREE MILLION TWO POINT SEVEN
MILLION IN BROWNFIELD FUNDING
OF WHICH TWO POINT SIX MILLION
IS FOR NON ENVIRONMENTAL
ACTIVITIES AND AN MDC GRANT
SARTORIUS OF ONE POINT TWO
MILLION AS AN INCENTIVE TO
LOCATE.
SO THIS PROJECT IS AWASH IN
PUBLIC SUBSIDIES THE LEAST WE
CAN DO IS MEET OUR COMMUNITY
STANDARDS FOR CLEAN
CONSTRUCTION
.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME?
SEE NO ONE ELSE?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE IS NO THANK YOU.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION.
THE MOTION IS TO POSTPONE THIS
TO THE NOVEMBER FIRST REGULAR
SESSION SESSION MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE
OF DISCUSSION OF THE PROPOSED
MOTION.
JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY AGAIN
THIS IS FOR PROCEDURAL PURPOSES
TO ENSURE THAT THERE IS
SUFFICIENT PUBLIC NOTICE AND
THE CORRECTED ONE.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE PATIENT
PATIENCE OF THE PETITIONER.
WITHOUT OBJECTION THE MOTION
PASSES RIGHT.
WE'LL MOVE FORWARD.
WE'RE ON TO REGULAR BUSINESS
SECTION NINE AND BE THIS IS
TWENTY NINE THIRTY FIVE
PLYMOUTH ROAD THE UVM CREDIT
UNION A PROPOSAL TO DEMOLISH
THE EXISTING OFFICE BUILDING
AND CONSTRUCTING A SINGLE STORY
FOUR THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED
NINETY SQUARE FEET CREDIT UNION
BUILDING IN THIS OLD OFFICE
DISTRICT ZONED SITE SUBJECT
DIVIDING THIS SITE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL AND
WE WILL MOVE ON TO PETITIONER
PRESENTATION
.
GOOD EVENING.
DIANE RAMOS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN CREDIT UNION.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU
FOR ALL OF YOUR FEEDBACK
PREVIOUSLY AND THE COMMUNITY'S
HOPEFULLY WHAT WE HAVE TO
PRESENT TONIGHT.
YOU'LL FIND THE ADJUSTMENT
APPROPRIATE.
AND JUST TO LET YOU KNOW THE
UNIVERSITY CREDIT MICHIGAN
CREDIT UNION IS HERE TO PROVIDE
CHOICES TO OUR MEMBERS GIVING
THEM OPTIONS OF WHERE THEY LIKE
TO DO THEIR FINANCIAL SERVICES.
WE'RE HERE TO INVEST IN THE
COMMUNITY.
WE PARTNER WITH SEVERAL LOCAL
INSTITUTIONS AROUND THE
COMMUNITIES WE SERVICE AND WE
REALLY DO WANT TO PROVIDE
FINANCIAL SUCCESS FOR ALL
OF OUR MEMBERS.
THEIR SUCCESS IS REALLY
CRITICAL AND IMPORTANT IN A
VERY BIG CORE VALUE FOR US.
SO WE ARE HERE TO REALLY
PARTNER WITH THE COMMUNITY.
SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT I PRESENTED THAT AND THEN
I WILL TURN IT OVER TO BOTH TED
AND TOM TO GO AHEAD WITH THE
PRESENTATION.
PEGGY DENHA TED HIRSCH WITH
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING HERE WITH
TOM PHILLIPS, HOBBS AND BLACK.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONERS FOR
BEING HERE TONIGHT.
SO I THINK MOST IF NOT ALL
OF YOU WERE HERE AT THE LAST
ITERATION OF THIS PROJECT AND
IT'S GET THIS OFF THE SCREEN SO
WE'LL KIND OF GO THROUGH THIS
PRESENTATION AND IF YOU'LL
RECALL FROM SEVERAL MONTHS AGO
THERE'S PROBABLY NOT A WHOLE
LOT THAT LOOKS A WHOLE LOT
DIFFERENT.
WE DID REMOVE THE DRIVE THROUGH
KIND OF HEARD LOUD AND CLEAR
THAT THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT
WAS KIND OF A MAJOR STICKING
POINT FOR THE PROJECT AND WENT
BACK TO THE DRAWING BOARD AND
HAVE THE PROJECT IN FRONT
OF YOU TONIGHT.
SO AGAIN, I'M JUST GOING TO
KIND OF GRAZE OVER A COUPLE
OF THESE SLIDES.
YOU KNOW, I THINK EVERYONE'S
PRETTY FAMILIAR WITH THE
LOCATION OF THE SITE ON
PLYMOUTH ROAD AND PRAIRIE
STREET, THE EXISTING LOCATION
THAT YOU SEE YOU HAS OUTGROWN
AND LOOKING TO KIND OF MOVE
DOWN THE STREET AND PROVIDE
MORE OPPORTUNITY IS MISS RAMOS
HAD STATED FOR THE CLIENTELE.
SO A COUPLE OF THE HIGHLIGHTS
HERE ABOUT THE PROJECT
CHARACTERISTICS THE SAME AS
BEFORE THE PROJECT IS BEING
PURSUED UNDER THE EXISTING
OFFICE ZONING NO REZONING, NO
VARIANCES AND NOW NO SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE FOR A DRIVE
THROUGH ARE BEING REQUESTED.
WE STILL DO HAVE THE SAME LAND
DIVISION PROPOSED AND THE
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION FOR
STREET TREE PLACEMENT.
SO HERE'S AN UPDATED SITE
LAYOUT AGAIN, PRETTY MUCH WHAT
YOU HAD SEEN BEFORE WITH THE
DRIVEWAY REMOVED A COUPLE
OF PAVEMENT ACCESS PARKING KIND
OF ADJUSTMENTS WE'VE STILL KEPT
THE DIVIDED PARCEL TO THE WEST
WILL BE JUST RAISED AND
RECEIPTED.
WE'RE STILL KEEPING THE RAIN
GARDEN KIND OF CENTRAL TO THE
TO THE SITE TO PROVIDE A LITTLE
BIT OF EXTRA GREEN STORMWATER
INFRASTRUCTURE IN ADDITION TO
THE DETENTION SYSTEM IN THE
PREVIOUS ITERATION THERE WAS A
A LITTLE BIT SMALLER SOLAR
ARRAY PROPOSED ON THE DRIVE
THROUGH CANOPY IN THIS
REEVALUATION OF THE PROJECT.
IT'S BEEN NOW CONSIDERED THAT
THIS SOLAR ARRAY CAN BE PLACED
ON THE MAIN BUILDING ROOF AND
SO THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE IN FRONT
OF YOU TONIGHT.
THE ACCESS CRITERIA ARE
REMAINING THE SAME THE THE
EXISTING CURB CUT AND PLYMOUTH
ROAD IS GOING TO BE TAKEN OUT
OF COMMISSION AND SHIFTED OVER
TO THE EAST WHICH ALLOWS FOR A
LITTLE BIT BETTER TRAFFIC FLOW
WITH THE LAND DIVISION THE IN
ANY POTENTIAL FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT ON THE WEST PARCEL
TO BE ACCOMMODATED.
THE EXISTING CURB CUT AND
PRAIRIE STREET WILL REMAIN AND
THEN THERE IS A BUS STOP THAT
GETS SHIFTED OVER TO THE EAST
AS A RESULT OF THE SHIFTING
OF THE CURVE CUT AND PLYMOUTH
UTILITIES AGAIN PRETTY MUCH THE
SAME AS WHAT YOU'VE SEEN BEFORE
THE STORM SEWER, THE COLLECTION
DETENTION SYSTEM GETS CONVEYED
TO THE NORTH END OF THE SITE
AND AND OUTLETS TO AN EXISTING
STORM SEWER AND PRARIE STREET
ALL OF THE SERVICE CONNECTIONS
TO THE BUILDING FOR WATER AND
SANITARY HAPPENED DIRECTLY EAST
OF THE BUILDING TO EXISTING
MAINS IN PRAIRIE.
THE BIGGEST NOTABLE CHANGE WITH
REGARD TO UTILITIES IS NOW THAT
THE CREDIT UNION IS COMMITTING
TO FULLY ELECTRIFIED HVAC AND
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS.
THERE IS A BACKUP GENERATOR
PROPOSED THAT WILL USE NATURAL
GAS BUT AGAIN IT'S JUST FOR
BACKUP SITUATIONS AND THAT'S
PRETTY MUCH EVERYTHING THAT'S
CHANGED WITH THE SITE.
SO I'LL HAND IT OVER TO MR.
PHILLIPS TO TALK ABOUT THE
BUILDING.
OH, TOM PHILLIPS ONE HOUR NORTH
STATE STREET HOPSIN BLACK
ARCHITECTS SO THE BUILDING
WE'VE HEARD FEEDBACK FROM THE
ALSO IN TERMS OF THE HEIGHT
OF THE BUILDING THAT IT IS ONE
STORY BUT IT IS A TALL ONE
STOREY BUILDING.
IT'S TWENTY TWO FEET TALL AT
THE EDGE OF THE ROOF AND THAT
PEEK IS TWENTY SIX FEET OR
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A LITTLE
MORE HEIGHT ALONG PLIMOTH ROAD
THAN A TYPICAL ONE STOREY
BUILDING.
OTHERWISE IT'S A VERY WELL
INSULATED BUILDING THAT EXCEEDS
ALL THE ENERGY
CODE REQUIREMENTS FOR INSULATED
CONSTRUCTION AND THE EIGHT
FOLLOWS MANY OF LEED PRINCIPLES
THAT THAT WE INCORPORATE INTO
ALL OUR PROJECTS THESE DAYS AND
THEY TYPICALLY EXCEED THE
ENERGY CODE AND ALMOST PRETTY
MUCH EVERY LEVEL AS TED
MENTIONED, WE WE HAVE A SPACE
THE WHITE ROOF FOR SOLAR PANELS
AND THAT WOULD BE DESIGNED INTO
THE PROJECT FROM THE BEGINNING
AND WE'RE HAPPY TO TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
AND THEN I THINK WE GO TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD,
MR. CHENG?
YES, THEY HAD PREVIOUSLY STATED
THIS WAS HEARD BACK AT THE
APRIL 4TH PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING WHERE IT WAS DENIED AND
THEN CAME BACK FOR
RECONSIDERATION AT THE APRIL
18TH MEETING AND IT WAS AGAIN
DENIED.
SO THEY HAVE COME BACK WITH
ESSENTIALLY THE SAME PROJECT
WITHOUT THE DRIVE THRU LANES
THERE IS A CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER THAT WAS MENTIONED THAT
WILL SCREEN FROM THE NEIGHBORS
TO THE NORTH.
IT IS SUBJECT TO A LAND
DIVISION.
IT'S ONE POINT SEVEN ACRE SITE.
THIS IS APPROXIMATELY ONE ACRE
I THINK THE VACANT SITE WILL BE
APPROXIMATELY POINT SEVEN ACRES
.
THEY ARE ALSO ADDING SOME
INSTALLED PARKING AND SOME
CAPABLE SPACES ON SITE BUT
OTHERWISE IT IS IT'S WHAT YOU
SAW BACK IN APRIL.
GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED
SITE
PLAN.
WE'LL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND THEN THE
PARTICIPANTS, SO TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR ARGUING
TO THE PUBLIC PLEASE USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE AND FOR
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THE
HOUSE IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE DO
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS SO ANYONE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AT THIS
TIME
?
THIS IS HIGHLY EMBARRASSING.
I FEEL LIKE I'M SOME KIND
OF OUTCAST OR SOMEONE WHO ISN'T
FAMILIAR WITH THE NORMAL
PROCEDURE BY COMING UP HERE
EVERY TIME THERE'S A PUBLIC
HEARING BUT ON THIS PROJECT I
WANT TO THANK THE PETITIONER
FOR GOING ALL ELECTRIC.
HOWEVER, I JUST TOOK A BEFORE
COMING HERE I JUST TOOK A LOOK
AT THE OUTSIDE SUSTAINABILITY
REVIEW THE LATEST ONE AND THEY
THEY CONDITIONALLY RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THIS PROJECT.
YOU MAY HAVE SEEN THIS THAT THE
PETITIONER IS SORT OF NOT
COMMITTING ON SEVERAL
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM OSA
INCLUDING APPEARING ON SITE
SOLAR WITH HINDSIGHT ENERGY
STORAGE.
THEY SAY THEY'RE EXPLORING THAT
UNLESS I WANT SOME MORE
SPECIFICS, THE BUSINESS ABOUT A
GAS CONNECTION FOR BACKUP
GENERATOR OWI OBJECTS TO THAT
AND SO DO I.
PROPANE WOULD BE ANOTHER
SOLUTION.
EVEN BETTER WOULD BE ONSITE
BATTERY STORAGE IN MY WILDEST
FANTASIES ENVISION A SCENARIO
WHERE FOSSIL GAS IS NO LONGER
USED TO HEAT ANYTHING AND ALL
THE EXISTING LINES WILL HAVE
BEEN CAPPED AND I THINK WE HAVE
TO ANTICIPATE THAT THE NEW
CONSTRUCTION NOT EXTEND THESE
LINES.
THERE HAVE BEEN SOME PROJECTS
THAT HAVE CHANGED THEIR MINDS
SO TO SPEAK AND PROMISE TO GO
ALL ELECTRIC AND THEN ENDED UP
CONVERTING BACK TO GAS.
I GUESS OWL CREEK APARTMENTS IS
THE MOST WELL KNOWN OF THESE.
SO LET'S NOT PUT IN A GAS
CONNECTION BEGIN WITH PASSIVE
HOUSE CERTIFICATION.
I WAS I ASKED FOR THAT AND
PETITIONER NEEDS TO SPECIFY A
DEMOLITION WASTE MANAGEMENT
PLAN SO I GUESS YEAH.
THOSE ARE THOSE ARE THE THINGS
THAT OUR SIDE REALLY WANTS TO
SEE AND I DO TOO.
I KNOW THERE'S BEEN A
DISCUSSION AROUND THIS TABLE
THAT DEVELOPERS CAN'T COMMIT TO
A LOT OF THESE THINGS BECAUSE
WE'RE JUST AT THE SITE PLANNING
STAGE AND MECHANICALS AND OTHER
PLANS COME LATER IN THE PROCESS
.
BUT I BELIEVE THAT FOR NEW
CONSTRUCTION IT SHOULD BE
ASSUMED FROM THE CONCEPT STAGE
OF A PROJECT THAT IS GOING TO
GO ALL ELECTRIC POSSIBLE NET
ZERO ENERGY AT THIS STAGE
OF THE ZERO PLAN AND OF THE
ONGOING CLIMATE CRISIS.
SO I DON'T THINK IT'S
UNREASONABLE TO ASK PETITIONERS
TO COME IN WITH CONCRETE PLANS
FOR THIS KIND OF BUILDING RIGHT
UP FRONT RIGHT HERE AT THE
COMMISSION EVEN THOUGH THE UDC
DOES NOT GIVE YOU THE POWER TO
ENFORCE THAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, SIR.
ANYONE ELSE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK TO ON ALL RIGHT.
I SEE NO ONE ELSE IS THERE
ANYBODY THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK REMOTELY?
THERE ARE TWO HANDS RAISED, MR.
CHAIR.
THE FIRST IS TREVENA RAMASWAMY
CAN YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION?
THANK YOU
.
FEELING VERY RISKY.
I LIVE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
DIRECTLY BEHIND THIS PROPOSAL
AND I LIVE IN THE COMMUNITY.
I SPOKE TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND EACH OF THESE
PROPOSALS ZERO PAPER THAT THE
LAST PROPOSAL WAS AGAINST THE
COMMUNITY.
THERE HAS BEEN NO TIME SINCE
THE EDUCATION HAS A PRIME
LOCATION AND HAS A POTENTIAL IN
THE DIRECTION OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WILL BE THE DENHA.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THIS PROPOSAL
FALLS INTO THE HANDS.
THE PLAN IS FOR JUST A FEW DAYS
AND THE ARE LIKELY TO FOOTBALL
FOOTBALL CHANGES ARE THE
BUILDINGS FIFTY YEARS PLUS
BUILDINGS YOU SEE ONE IN 2050
PLAN AND THE EXPANSION OF THIS
SCHOOL THAT WILL BECOME A TWO
STOREY BUILDING.
SIX HUNDRED STUDENTS YOU NEED
TO THINK THAT THE ORDER IS
BETTER PLAN FOR THE FUTURE
OF SEE AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THE PRESIDENCY TO
COME AND THE BETTER AND BETTER
MATCHES THE FUTURE VISION
OF THE SUPPORT FOR THE
CONSERVATIVE.
IF I ASK THAT THEY WORK ON
INTERIOR DESIGN TO SERVE THE
COMMUNITY THAT I SUPPOSE THE
COMMITTEE THE CONFERENCE ROOM
THAT CLOSES AT FIVE O'CLOCK ON
A WEEKDAY OR COMMUNITY BANKS
THAT THIS IS A GOOD WAY TO
SUGGEST THAT YOU SEE
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS JUST LAZY, NOT
SOLUTION BASED.
IT WAS ALSO MENTIONED THAT THE
DESIGN IS A STANDARD IN
MARKETING BUILDING THAT'S A
HUGE BILLBOARD RATHER THAN A
COMMUNITY WHERE THE COMMUNITY
OR THE EMPLOYEES IT ALSO HAS
LIMITED ACCESSIBILITY FOR
BUSSES AND WALKABILITY FROM THE
PROPOSED LOCATION WHERE IT IS
NOW AND THE PARKING LOT IS IN
THE FRONT AND IN THE BACK AND
NOT LIKE IT.
YOU SEE ONE REQUIREMENT THAT
REQUIRES IT TO BE ON A SIDEWALK
IF DESIRED IN FRONT OF THE
CONSULTING GROUP.
I TO DO A BETTER JOB
OF UTILIZING THIS LAST TIME
BECAUSE I THINK IT'S FOUR OR
FIVE EMPLOYEES INSIDE IT
PERHAPS THE ENTRANCE FOR
BUSINESSES THAT ARE CLOSE FOR
EXAMPLE A COMMUNITY SPACE
THAT'S ON THE WEEKEND BEGIN TO
UTILIZE THIS SPACE BUT IF IT'S
EASY ONE TRANSPORTATION FOR THE
UNIVERSITY MISSION IS TWENTY
FIFTY ALONG WITH THE PERSONNEL
OF THE APES BUILDING A TWO
STOREY BUILDING ON TWENTY
TWENTY SEVEN.
THERE'S A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
HERE.
I ASKED FOR A LONG TERM VISION
WE NEED TO DO BETTER DENSITY
VISIBILITY THE BEST CONSIDER
THE TRAFFIC ON THE FIRST DAY IS
VERY HIGH SCHOOL EXPANSION AND
ONE IN THANK YOU.
TWO MORE HANDS ARE RAISED.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS JACOB
KITMAN.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES.
ALL RIGHT.
MY NAME IS WITHIN THE SAME
NEIGHBORHOOD AS PROPOSED.
SO DESPITE THE ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPROVEMENTS IT SEEMS LIKELY
THAT SUFFERS FROM THE SANDFLIES
DETAILS ABOUT THIS POLICY I
HAVE RETAIL BANKS IN MY OFFICE
LOCATION AND CITY AND SO THIS
IS A SPECIAL AREA AND AN AREA
WHERE WE ARE THAT WE DO NOT ASK
WHAT WE HAVE FINANCIAL SUCCESS
.
YOU SHOULD HOLD ON FOR A LITTLE
WHILE I GUESS ADDITIONAL DRIVE,
ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC AND A HIGH
SPEED REAL FOR SCHOOL.
THERE'S ALREADY A LOT OF TIMES
CONGESTION THE KIDS AND PARENTS
ON FOOT I REALLY THINK THAT
DENSITY RIGHT UP HERE IS VERY
SHORT SIGHTED USE OF APPLYING
PASSABLY WELL AS I MENTIONED
MAY SOON BE TO SEE ONE SIDE TO
BE COMPLETELY CONSISTENT WITH
THE SEASON STATED GOALS AND THE
VISION ZERO ZERO FANS.
I THINK ANOTHER MAJOR ISSUE IS
THAT THIS PROPOSAL IS A NEARLY
THREE QUARTERS OF TO A LESS
VALUE PROPOSAL THE COMMISSION
SHOULD CONSIDER PLUS THE FACT
THAT WHAT TYPE OF FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT IS GOING TO BE
FEASIBLE COST EFFECTIVE BUT
THAT IS REALLY NARROW I THINK
SHOULD CONSIDER THAT IT'S
HIGHLY LIKELY THAT THAT THAT A
LOT WILL SEE THINGS FOR QUITE
SOME TIME THAT IS INCONSISTENT
WITH THE CURRENT STATUS WHICH I
BELIEVE COMMISSION CAN FACTOR
INTO THE DECISION.
SO THIS ANNOUNCEMENT WOULD
FRAGMENT ONE OF OUR MOST
PRECIOUS AND LIMITED RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT LAND IS FOR HOUSING
OUR SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND IT
WOULD COME OUTPUTTED THE BEEN
ON FAMILY OF WHICH THE CITY
STATED GOALS THINGS YOU BEEN
BLESSED TO URGE IS YOUR
DISCRETION TO DENY THIS
UNWANTED DEVELOPMENT AT LEAST
POSTPONE IT
BETTER INTEGRATED
WITH THE EVOLVING VISION FOR
THIS AREA AS TWENTY TWENTY
EIGHTEEN WE HAVE TO THANK YOU
THAT YOU THE NEXT TEN BRAZDE IS
CRISTIE WATKINS'.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION IN PHOTOGRAPHY.
MY NAME IS CHRISTINA THAT SHE
DIED SIX YEARS AGO CALLED I
NEED APPROXIMATELY THIS SON AND
I WALK MY DOGS EVERY DAY
THROUGH THIS NEIGHBORHOOD SO
I'M IN ANOTHER DIMENSION TO THE
DRIVING LANES AND TO HOWEVER
I'M ACTUALLY VERY AS FAR AS I
WAS STARTING THE THIRTY NINE
APRIL THE ACTUALLY A MONTH
ACTUALLY I'M AND I THINK MUCH
MORE ABOUT THE MARKET SITUATION
OR TO THINK ABOUT NEXT YEAR'S
BUILDINGS, THINK ABOUT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO THINK
ABOUT THE OTHER CALLERS HAVE
MENTIONED IN LIGHT OF THE FACT
THAT THIS SUMMER WE HAD A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF CLIMATE
INCIDENTS AND SO FORTH.
THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT WE
THINK ABOUT IS NOT GETTING OR
PROBLEMATIC FOSSIL FUELS BUT
ALSO MORE DENSITY AS YOU SEE
ONE WE'RE TRYING TO SAY FOR
PLAN THAT IS COMING UP IN JUST
TWO WEEKS IS GOING TO
POTENTIALLY MAJOR POLLUTION.
SO I JUST A LITTLE BIT
DISAPPOINTED THAT THE IS
INCREDIBLY AVERAGE.
I'VE BEEN A MEMBER FOR OVER TEN
YEARS SINCE THE STATE HAD NOT
DONE A LITTLE BIT MORE
ENGAGEMENT WITH THE COMMUNITY
AND A LITTLE BIT BROADER.
SO I DO HOPE THAT THE
COMMISSION CAN TAKE THOSE INTO
ACCOUNT.
THANK YOU THAT YOU DO YOU HAVE
ANY OTHER CALLERS WAS THE LAST
CALLER MR. CHAIR, THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M IN A CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING
ON THAT SO I'M GOING TO BE THE
PROPOSED MOTION TO HANOVER CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION PROVES THE
UMC YOU SAY SUBJECT TO
DEMOLISHING THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE ON SITE, PROVIDING
THE SEPARATE PARCEL FROM THE
PARENT PARCEL IN A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION FOR THE LOCATION
OF SHREK'S USED TO BE OUTSIDE
THE PUBLIC LIBRARY AS REQUIRED
IN FIVE POINT TWO ZERO POINT
ONE ZERO OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO KICK US
OFF THE COMMISSIONER MILT'S
THANK YOU FOR RETHINKING THIS
PARTICULAR SITE.
I AM NO LONGER CONCERNED ABOUT
THE IMPACTS THAT THE SITE WILL
HAVE ON TRAFFIC.
I THINK IT'S CERTAINLY THERE'S
GOING TO BE MORE COMING AND
GOING THAN BEFORE BUT KIND
OF QUEUING AND CONCERNS ABOUT
TRAFFIC SAFETY ASSOCIATED WITH
THE DRIVE THRU LANES.
I HAVE ARE IRRELEVANT NOW I
ALSO APPRECIATE KIND
OF THINKING MORE ABOUT
SUSTAINABLE.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU AS YOU
MOVE THE PROJECT FORWARD TO
THINK ABOUT WHETHER IT'S
ACTUALLY CHEAPER LONG TERM TO
NOT HAVE THAT NATURAL GAS
CONNECTION AND A HOOK UP FEE
THAT YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
PAY FOR IT IN THE
INFRASTRUCTURE PART OF IT AND
PROVIDE PROPANE INSTEAD FOR THE
RARE RARE CHANCES WHERE YOU
NEED THAT BACKUP POWER.
I DON'T KNOW ALL OF THE
BUILDING CODE RULES DON'T GET
ME WRONG BUT I DON'T KNOW THAT
THERE ARE THAT MANY THERE THAT
MANY TIMES WHEN IT WILL
ACTUALLY BE NEEDED.
YOU DON'T HAVE AN ELEVATOR
BECAUSE YOU ARE OBVIOUSLY ONE
STORY GREAT.
SO AND SO I DON'T KNOW THAT
EVEN WHEN THE POWER IS OUT HOW
IMPORTANT IT IS THAT IT IS
OPERATING AT FULL CAPACITY IS
WHAT I WOULD SAY.
AND SO THAT SEEMS TO ME LIKE IT
WOULD NOT REQUIRE VERY MUCH BY
WAY OF BACKUP POWER.
I THINK I HEAR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WORK AND RECOGNIZE IS
THAT WE'RE CONTEMPLATING
TRANSITION ALONG THIS CORRIDOR
.
I ALSO THINK THAT THIS MEETS
THE STANDARDS MY MY FEELING IS
IT MEETS THE STANDARDS OF OF
WHAT THE ZONING CURRENTLY
ALLOWS.
I APPRECIATE MOVING TO A SINGLE
ALONG PLYMOUTH ROAD AND THE WAY
THAT IT'S ALIGNED SO THAT
SOMETHING CAN GO ON THAT NARROW
PARCEL MAY NOT REQUIRE PARKING
ON SITE.
WE DON'T AND I ENCOURAGE YOU TO
THINK ABOUT WHETHER THERE MIGHT
BE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
REDEVELOPMENT OF THAT SITE TO
SHARE YOUR PARKING.
I I WOULD HOPE THAT I WOULD
EXPECT THAT AND THIS IS ALREADY
A WALKABLE AREA AS YOU HAVE
MORE PEOPLE LIVING THERE, MORE
OF OUR CUSTOMERS ARE GOING TO
BE ABLE TO WALK.
AND SO I WOULD HOPE THAT
WHATEVER GETS DEVELOPED ON THE
WESTERN PARCEL IS BUILT A LOT
OR WHATEVER THE ZONING ALLOWS
THERE AND THAT YOU DON'T HAVE
PARKING ALL ON THAT SITE.
OUR CODE DOES NOT REQUIRE THAT
AND I WOULD STRONGLY ENCOURAGE
THAT.
SO THINGS TO CONSIDER AS YOU'RE
KIND OF THINKING OVERALL ABOUT
THIS ABOUT THIS PROJECT.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
TELLS ME.
THANKS VERY MUCH.
I'M HAPPY TO SEE THE
ELECTRIFICATION ELEMENTS.
I'M INTERESTED IN YOUR ANSWERS
TO COMMISSIONER MILLS.
I MEAN YEAH, I'M INTERESTED IN
HEARING WHAT YOU WANT TO SAY TO
HER SUGGESTIONS ABOUT PROPANE
AND ALSO HAD YOU CONSIDERED
BATTERIES AND WOULD BATTERY
BACKUP DO ENOUGH OF WHAT YOU
NEED IN A IN THE INEVITABLE I
SHALL SAY POWER OUTAGE?
SO I ALSO WANT TO SAY THAT I
APPRECIATE THE COMMENTS THAT
RESIDENTS HAVE TAKEN THE TIME
AND THOUGHT TO PREPARE AND I
UNDERSTAND THAT THIS BANK IS
NOT RESIDENTS PREFERRED USE FOR
THIS PARCEL BUT UMC YOU OWNS
THE PARCEL AND THE CITY DOESN'T
HAVE THE ABILITY TO TELL
PROPERTY OWNERS WHAT TO DO WITH
THE PARCELS THEY OWN IF THE
USES THEY PROPOSE ARE
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT THE
CURRENT ZONING ALLOWS AND THIS
ONE IS AND WHILE IT IS TRUE
THAT WE ARE NOW QUITE CLOSE TO
TAKE ONE REZONING ALONG THIS
CORRIDOR THAT CHANGES NOTHING
FOR A PROJECT THAT'S ALREADY
UNDER CONSIDERATION AND HAS
BEEN UNDER CONSIDERATION FOR
MORE THAN A YEAR.
SO WE ARE NOT ABLE TO CHANGE
THE RULES OF THE GAME IN THE
COURSE OF THE GAME.
SO WE NEED TO WORK WITH WHAT WE
HAVE IN FRONT OF US.
I NOTICED IN THE NOTES THIS IS
A QUESTION THE PETITIONER THAT
YOU STATED YOU ARE PREPARED TO
DISCUSS THE TRAFFIC CONCERN
THAT'S BEEN RAISED ABOUT
PRAIRIE STREET AND I'D LIKE TO
INVITE TO DO SO.
I THINK AT OUR LAST MEETING WE
SPOKE A LITTLE BIT ABOUT HOW
WE'RE AS THIS THIS NEW FACILITY
MAY NOT GENERATE ADDITIONAL
TRIPS AND THAT PEOPLE WILL NOT
BE DELIBERATELY LEAVING THEIR
HOMES TO COME TO IT.
IT IS GOING TO CREATE MORE
TRAFFIC AS PEOPLE DRIVE BY AND
SAY OH YEAH, I WANTED TO
DEPOSIT THIS CHECK OR I NEED TO
PICK UP SOME CASH.
SO IF YOU HAD FURTHER THOUGHTS
ABOUT PRAIRIE STREET I MEAN
SINCE THE NOTES SAY THAT YOU
DID I INVITE YOU TO SHARE WHAT
THOSE THOUGHTS WERE.
I WANT TO ASK YOU STRAIGHT OUT
IF YOU HAVE THOUGHT ABOUT PLANS
FOR THE THREE QUARTERS OF AN
ACRE ADJOINING PARCEL, IF
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT YOU'RE
THINKING OF SELLING, IF IT'S
SOMETHING THAT YOU HAVE AN IDEA
OF WHAT YOUR USE MIGHT BE FOR
IT AND YEAH, I THINK THOSE WERE
THE TWO THOSE WERE THE MAJOR
THINGS.
THANK YOU.
OK, SO I'LL TRY TO TAKE THOSE
ONE AT A TIME FIRST BEING THE
THING THAT I CAN SPEAK A LITTLE
BIT TO AS A CIVIL ENGINEER IN
REGARD TO THE TRAFFIC.
SO COMMISSIONER DID SHE DID
MENTION LIKE WE TALKED ABOUT AT
THE FIRST MEETING FOR THIS THAT
PART OF THE EVALUATION OF THE
TRIP GENERATION FOR THIS TYPE
OF USE IS ACKNOWLEDGING THE
FACT THAT THERE ARE PASSERSBY
TRIPS THAT GENERATED WHERE IT'S
NOT THE ORIGINAL DESTINATION
AND AND I APOLOGIZE I DON'T
HAVE THE THE REVISED TRAFFIC
IMPACT NUMBERS IN FRONT OF ME.
BUT IF I'M RECALLING CORRECTLY
THOSE GENERATION NUMBERS DID
GET REDUCED WITH THE
ELIMINATION OF THE DRIVE
THROUGH AND I THINK AT THE THE
INITIAL ONSET OF THIS PROJECT
OUR POSITION AND THE FINDINGS
FROM OUR TRAFFIC TEAM WAS
THAT
THE LEVEL OF SERVICE OF PRAIRIE
STREET WOULDN'T BE DEGRADED AS
A RESULT OF THE PROJECT WITH
THE DRIVE THROUGH AND COME TO
THE SAME FINDINGS WITH THE
ELIMINATION OF THE DRIVE
THROUGH AND EVEN MORE SO AND
THAT'S WITH COMPARISON OF THE
EXISTING USE TO WHAT'S PROPOSED
NOW I THINK I'LL HAND IT OVER
TO MR. PHILLIPS FOR DISCUSSION
ON THE GENERATOR.
GOOD EVENING.
WE TYPICALLY THE TWO SOURCES
OF FUEL FOR GENERATORS ARE
DIESEL AND NATURAL GAS WITH
DIESEL IS CONSIDERED TO BE
WORSE IN TERMS OF BEING A FUEL
THAT HAS OIL AS A COMPONENT
OF IT.
THE PROPANE IS A IS A DIFFERENT
TECHNOLOGY THAT THE GENERATOR
REALLY IS DETERMINED BY THE
SIZE AND TYPE OF GENERATOR
GENERATORS DETERMINED BY IT TO
USE IN WHAT IT'S GOING TO BACK
UP IN THIS CASE THE CREDIT
UNION HAS REMAINED IN OPERATION
THROUGH A POWER OUTAGE SO THAT
OPERATING THE BUILDING IMPLIES
A LOAD.
IN FACT, MAKING THE BUILDING
ALL ELECTRIC CAN EVEN INCREASE
THAT LOAD TO SOME EXTENT.
SO THAT'S GOING TO DRIVE THE
TYPE OF GENERATOR IT IS AND
PROPANE IS NOT A COMMON IN OUR
EXPERIENCE GENERATOR FUEL BUT
THAT'S SOMETHING WE CAN LOOK AT
AND BATTERIES ARE FRANKLY QUITE
NEW AND SO THAT THEY HAVE TO BE
LOOKED AT IN THE SCALE OF THE
POWER THEY NEEDED TO PROVIDE.
SO THOSE THINGS GOING FORWARD
WOULD TAKE A LOOK AT BUT WE
HAVEN'T GOTTEN INTO ENGINEERING
YET AT THIS POINT
.
I TO ANSWER THAT THIRD QUESTION
AS FAR AS USE ON THE ADJACENT
PARCEL WE DO NOT HAVE SPECIFIC
PLANS FOR THAT.
WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE IT THROUGH
PHASE ONE OF THE PROJECT BEFORE
DETERMINING WHAT THE USE
OF THAT PARCEL WOULD BE.
BUT OF COURSE WHATEVER ZONING
IS IN EFFECT AT THE TIME THAT
WE DID, WE WOULD CERTAINLY
CONSIDER THAT AS WE WERE TO
MOVE FORWARD SO
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
,
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT, AS
A FOLLOW UP QUESTION TO
SOMETHING I'M JUST CURIOUS DOES
A CREDIT UNION NEED TO REMAIN
OPERATIONAL DURING A POWER
OUTAGE?
IS IT SECURITY LIKE VAULT
ISSUES OR IN ORDER TO SERVICE
THE MEMBERSHIP BASE?
THE COMPUTER SYSTEMS, THE H
BACK SYSTEM, ALL OF THAT AND
THEN OUR CAMERA SYSTEM, OUR
ALARM SYSTEM DOES NEED TO BE
OPERATIONAL IN ORDER FOR US TO
KEEP THE DOORS OPEN.
BUT IT IS IT IS FOR SECURITY A
BIG PORTION OF IT SECURITY AND
COMFORT OF THE TEAM AND THE
MEMBERS.
YEAH, I MEAN THAT IT'S NOT OPEN
TWENTY FOUR HOURS A DAY I
ASSUME YOUR POWER TWENTY FOUR
HOURS A DAY.
I MEAN THE ARGUMENT I GUESS TO
ME THAT LIKE A CREDIT UNION
WOULD NEED TO REMAIN IN
OPERATION DURING A POWER
OUTAGE.
IT'S NOT LIKE CRITICAL PIECE
OF CIVIC INFRASTRUCTURE SO
DURING THE PANDEMIC WE WERE
ACTUALLY CONSIDERED CRITICAL
AND SO WE ALL HAD TO REPORT TO
WORK.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU GUYS ARE
BETTER OR NOT BUT FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS ARE CONSIDERED A
CRITICAL COMPONENT OF THE
GOVERNMENT AND FOR US TO
SERVICE OUR MEMBERS LIKE ANY
OTHER BUSINESS AND BE ABLE TO
BE THERE AT THE NEEDS OF OUR
MEMBERS, WE HAVE EXPERIENCED
SEVERAL POWER OUTAGES AND
UNFORTUNATELY WE'VE EXPERIENCED
SEVERAL OF THEM HAVE BEEN I TO
BE HONEST WITH YOU.
SO OUR CURRENT LOCATION IN THE
MAP IS PROBABLY ONE OF OUR
LOCATIONS THAT GOES DOWN IN
POWER MOST OFTEN DUE TO SEVERAL
FACTORS I WE LEASED THAT SPACE.
I DON'T HAVE ALL THE DETAILS
FOR HAVING THE BACKUP IN ORDER
TO BE ABLE TO CONTINUE BUSINESS
IS IMPORTANT FOR US BUT AGAIN,
AS BOTH TED AND TOM HAD
MENTIONED WITH A GENERATOR I
MEAN WE'RE CERTAINLY WILLING TO
LOOK AT WHAT WE CAN DO CAN
OFFSET THAT IF THERE ARE THINGS
WE CAN DO WITH THE NEWER
TECHNOLOGY, THE BATTERIES I
WHAT WE'LL DEFINITELY LOOK INTO
THAT AND WE WORK THEY WORK
DIRECTLY WITH SPECIFIC
ENGINEERS THAT ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERS THAT TELL US WHAT WE
CAN RUN AND CAN'T RUN OFF OF A
GENERATOR SO I'M GLAD TO HEAR
THAT YOU'RE WILLING TO LOOK
INTO IT AND I GUESS AS FAR AS
THE SECOND PARCEL IS CONCERNED
,I THINK COMMISSIONER SAUV,
LAST TIME YOU DID SOME QUICK
MATH TO SEE WHAT WOULD EVEN FIT
GIVEN IT'S GOING TO TAKE ONE I
MEAN I GUESS I WOULD JUST SAY
AT THIS POINT I DON'T THINK
WE'RE GOING TO CONVINCE YOU OR
YOUR CURRENT PERSONNEL.
BUT IF THAT SECOND PERSON HAS
RESIGNED, TAKE ONE AND YOU SORT
OF FIND IT LIKE NOTHING IS
DEVELOPABLE ON THAT PARCEL.
I WOULD HIGHLY CONSIDER
RETHINKING THIS CURRENT PARCEL
TO SEE WHERE STUFF COULD BE
SHIFTED AROUND BECAUSE TO ONE
OF THE POINTS THAT WOULD REALLY
BE ASHAMED TO JUST HAVE A
VACANT PARCEL SITTING ON AN
ACTIVE CORRIDOR.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE, THANKS.
I'VE READ THE COMMENTS AND
MOVING TOWARDS ELECTRIFICATION
.
I THINK MR. CARTER MADE A VALID
POINT AROUND THE LACK
OF RECOMMENDATION FROM LSI.
SO YOU STARTED AND OTHERS WERE
SORT OF TENTATIVE APPROVAL AND
THEN ON SEPTEMBER 8TH THEY
RECOMMENDED NOT APPROVAL
BECAUSE IT STILL USES FOSSIL
FUEL.
AND I THINK THIS IS THE
CONVERSATION THAT WE'RE
CURRENTLY IN.
SO OTHER THAN THE FACT THAT
YOU'RE CURRENT AND I SAY THIS
CORRECTLY DESIGN TEAM DOESN'T
HAVE EXPERIENCE WITH US
TECHNOLOGY IS ANOTHER REASON
WHY WE'RE NOT MOVING TO A
COMPLETELY SUSTAINABLE MODEL
FOR THIS DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE I
THINK WHAT I HEARD FROM IBM
BLACK WAS THAT IT IS A NEW
PROGRAM AND A NEW TIME HERE AND
WE DON'T HAVE EXPERIENCE WITH
IT SO WE DON'T KNOW HOW TO DO
THE THING THAT WE WOULD LATER
CONSIDER SO AND YOU CAN
DISABUSE THEM BUT YEAH, I
APOLOGIZE FOR THAT THAT
IMPLICATION AND NOT AT ALL WHAT
WHAT I WAS REFERRING TO WAS
PAST EXPERIENCE SO AS YOU KNOW,
CONSTRUCTION IS A LENGTHY
PROCESS AND SO PROJECTS ARE
PLANNED AND ENGINEERED AND
DESIGNED AND CONSTRUCTED
THROUGH SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
OF TIME.
SO WHEN THINGS COME OUT OF THE
MARKET THE CHANGE THAT THEY
THEY INTEGRATE RELATIVELY
SLOWLY INTO THE INTO THE
CONSTRUCTION PROCESS IN BATTERY
IS ONE OF THOSE AT THIS SCALE.
SO IF THIS WAS YOU KNOW YOU
HEAR ABOUT BATTERIES AT HOME
ALL ALL THE TIME BUT WE HAVEN'T
HAD AN ENTIRE BUILDING BACKED
UP WITH A BATTERY YET BUT IT'S
SOMETHING THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT OUR ENGINEERS ARE FAMILIAR
WITH IT AND AND IS SOMETHING
THAT WE WOULD EVALUATE AGAIN
THAT GOES TO THE SIZE AND TYPE
.
I JUST NEED TO RUN YOU
CORRECTLY.
I WORKED FOR FIVE YEARS IN 1997
AT DATA CENTER.
THE ENTIRE BUILDING WAS
SUPPORTED BY ACTUAL WHAT LOOKED
LIKE CAR BATTERIES TO DEAL WITH
POWER OUTAGES TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE POWER NEVER WENT OFF SO
THAT THEY COULD DELIVER FOR
THEIR CUSTOMERS SO CAN YOU AND
YOU'RE SAYING THAT THERE IS NO
TECHNOLOGY THAT WOULD ALLOW
7000 SQUARE FOOT BUILDING TO
OPERATE ON THE BATTERY?
WELL, I UNDERSTAND YOUR BEST
UNDERSTAND IT'S LIKE A THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT WHICH IS THAT'S
WHAT I'M SAYING MODIFIES HOUSE
SO SORRY AGAIN, THAT'S NOT WHAT
I'M SAYING.
I'M SAYING IT'S SOMETHING THAT
WE WOULD EVALUATE AND OUR
ENGINEERS ARE EXPERIENCED WITH
IT.
ANOTHER QUESTION.
WELL SO GIVEN ALL OF THE
COMMUNITY COMMENT ABOUT THIS
SORT OF TYING UP THIS PROPERTY
LET'S TO WHAT IS COMING CAN YOU
JUST HELP ME HERE AT THE TABLE
AS WELL AS THE COMMUNITY THAT
SURROUNDS THE BANK WHY YOU
DECIDED TO STAY IN THIS KIND
OF DESIGN CONFIGURATION AS
OPPOSED TO MOVING TOWARDS DC
ONE WHICH I THINK EVERYONE THAT
IS CALLED IN WOULD SAY MUCH
LIKE US THAT WOULD SORT
OF INDICATE THAT YOU WERE
HIGHLY INTERESTED IN COMMUNITY
INVESTMENT AND SORT OF TRYING
TO ACTIVATE THIS SPACE.
I UNDERSTAND COUNCIL MEMBERS
THIS HAS ALREADY STATED YOU OWN
THE LAND, IT'S ZONED OFFICE.
YOU GET TO FOLLOW THAT RULE
THAT ZONING AS YOU SEE FIT BUT
JUST SORT OF HEARING ALL OF THE
FEEDBACK BECAUSE THIS IS OUR
THIRD TIME AT THE TABLE.
ABSOLUTELY.
IT JUST SEEMS NO, I WISH I WAS
GOING TO SHARE THIS WITH YOU
GUYS.
YOU'RE NOT QUITE FINISHED TO
ME.
IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE THAT THAT
FEEDBACK IS BEING CONSIDERED
AND SO I NEED TO JUST GIVE YOU
ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY TO HELP US
UNDERSTAND WHY THIS 4000 SQUARE
FOOT BUILDING IN THIS TWO ACRE
PLOT THAT'S INTO AN AREA THAT'S
GOING TO BE REDEVELOPED AS
OPPOSED TO SOMETHING THAT I
THINK YOU COULD HAVE DONE THAT
WOULD HAVE BEEN STILL IN
KEEPING WITH THE DESIGN OF YOUR
BANK AND THE KINDS OF DESIGNS
THAT YOU DO BUT COULD ACTIVATE
AND SORT OF SAY TO THE
COMMUNITY, HEY, WE'RE A
PARTNER, THINGS ARE BUILDING
AND WE'RE COMING TOWARDS YOU.
ABSOLUTELY.
WE WE DID ACTUALLY
CONSIDER
DOING LARGER THAN A ONE STOREY
BUILDING.
WE A DESIGN TEAM WE ALL GOT
TOGETHER ALONG WITH OUR
INTERNAL TEAM AND LOOKED AT IT.
WE ARE IN THE BUSINESS
OF BUYING AND SELLING MONEY.
IT'S WHAT FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS DO SUPPORTING THE
COMMUNITIES WE LIVE IN WE
SERVICE AND HELPING THE MEMBERS
WITH OUR FINANCIAL SUCCESS.
UNFORTUNATELY SOMETIMES DOES
NOT ALWAYS GENERATE THE RIGHT
REVENUE TO PAY FOR THE BUILDING
TO GO HIGHER THEN THAT'S NOT
OUR SPECIALTY.
YOU KNOW YOU GUYS TALK ABOUT
MOPTI USE HOUSING, ALL OF THAT
STUFF THAT IS NOT OUR FORTE.
WE DID LOOK AT DOING CONFERENCE
ON THOSE THINGS ON MULTIPLE
LEVELS.
UNFORTUNATELY IT JUST DIDN'T
GIVE US THE RETURN AS A
BUSINESS THAT WOULD MAKE SMART
BUSINESS DECISIONS.
SO WE DID GO BACK TO THE
DRAWING BOARD AND LOOK ABOUT SO
IF IT WERE HAD ONE, YOU KNOW,
YOU WOULDN'T HAVE DECIDED TO GO
FORWARD WITH THIS PROJECT
BECAUSE YOU WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN
ABLE TO MEET THAT ZONING
REQUIREMENT AND THE SPECIFIC
PROJECT I WE I DON'T KNOW THAT
I CAN ANSWER THAT BECAUSE IT
WASN'T DC ONE AND SO WE LOOKED
AT DOING A THREE STORY BUILDING
AND AT THAT POINT BASED ON HOW
WE WERE DESIGNING IT AND WE
WERE LOOKING AT THAT IT DID NOT
GIVE US THE RETURN AS A SMART
BUSINESS DECISION FOR OUR
MEMBERS INVESTMENTS YOU THANK
YOU.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR COMMENTS
FEEDBACK AND AT THIS POINT I
THINK WE'RE GOOD TO GO WITH A
ROLL CALL VOTE THE MOTION IS
PRESENTED TO LEE.
YES, VICE ON LECTERN YES
COMMISSIONER WHERE SECRETARY
WYCHE YES SOLVAY FINE.
YES.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
PLEASURE MILLS YES.
COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER YES.
AND COUNCIL MEMBERS YES.
THE MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU.
SUPPLY WAS APPROVED BUT TO MOVE
ON TO OTHER BUSINESS AND TO
SECTION 10 A THIS IS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WORK
PROGRAM DISCUSSION AND WITH
THIS WE'RE GOING TO START WITH
A STAFF PRESENTATION KELLY,
JUST GIVE ME ONE MOMENT.
SURE THING
.
AND A BIG THANK YOU TO WHOEVER
BROUGHT THE CHOCOLATES.
I THINK THAT WAS COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS AND COUNCIL MEMBER JOSH
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
HOBACK.
TOO MUCH CHOCOLATE CITY
CHOCOLATE.
THANK YOU.
OH BOY.
IT'S HERE NOW.
OH, HOT POTATO.
YEAH, THIS IS THE WORK PROGRAM
IS ADOPTED ON AN ANNUAL BASIS
AND CURRENTLY THE COMMISSION
HAS A TWENTY TWENTY TWO TO
TWENTY TWENTY THREE WORK
PROGRAM BUT NOT THE FOLLOW ON
FOR TWENTY TWENTY THREE TO
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR THERE WAS A
HEALTHY DISCUSSION ON AN UPDATE
AND WHAT IT WOULD INCLUDE AND
LOOK LIKE YOUR OCTOBER 18TH
TWENTY TWENTY TWO REGULAR
SESSION.
I'M HOWEVER THERE WAS NOT A
FINAL RESOLUTION TO ADOPT A NEW
WORK PROGRAM AND SO WE'VE
REVISITED THAT AT THE JULY
TWENTY FOURTH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE ORDINANDS PROVISIONS
COMMITTEE AND AN UPDATED WORK
PROGRAM WAS PROPOSED TO REFLECT
THE OCTOBER DISCUSSIONS UPDATE
MANY OF THE STATUS STATUSES
THAT I HAD TRANSPIRED SINCE
OCTOBER OF TWENTY TWO AND ALSO
IDENTIFIED WORK WHICH PROBABLY
SHOULD BE CHANNELED THROUGH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PROCESS
SINCE THAT IS SUCH A
SIGNIFICANT UNDERTAKING TO
OVERSEE DRAFT AND ALSO WHAT IS
CARRIED FORWARD TODAY IS A
DRAFT THAT ATTEMPTS TO ALSO
MATCH THE LEVEL OF EFFORT
OF THE MATCHING HOPEFULLY THE
AMBITIONS OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WITH THE STAFFING
THAT WE HAVE AVAILABLE AND ALSO
OFFERING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
STAFF TO GET INVOLVED IN SO
MANY OF THE THINGS WE WOULD
LIKE TO CHANNEL THROUGH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PROCESS SO
WE CAN WORK THROUGH THOSE.
BUT AS WE GO ALONG PLEASE KEEP
IN MIND YOU CAN ADOPT THE
MOTION AS PROPOSED TO ACCEPT
WHAT BEFORE YOU THERE ARE TWO
COPIES IN YOUR PACKET.
ONE HAS RED LINE SHOWING WHAT'S
CHANGED FROM YOUR CURRENT WORK
PROGRAM.
THE TWENTY TWENTY TWO TO TWENTY
TWENTY THREE WORK PROGRAM YOU
CAN DECIDE TO MAKE CHANGES I'M
SORRY SO YOU COULD CONTINUE
UNDER YOUR PREVIOUS WORK
PROGRAM IF YOU LIKE IT YOU
COULD ADOPT WHAT'S PROPOSED
TODAY OR YOU COULD PROPOSE
FURTHER AMENDMENTS AND SAY OK
THIS NEEDS MORE WORK SO WHAT IS
IN THE PACKET AND WHAT IS ON
THE SCREEN ARE TWO VERSIONS AS
I MENTIONED A RED LINE VERSION
RED JUST MEANS IT WAS MOVED
AROUND EITHER TO A SUBSEQUENT
YEAR OR IT WAS ADDED NEW AND
THEN THERE IS A KIND OF A CLEAN
VERSION OF THAT THAT HAS RED
LINES REMOVED AND ITEMS THAT
WERE AT THE VERY BOTTOM THAT
SAID THEY WERE TOTALLY REMOVED
BECAUSE THEY'RE BEING ADVANCED
THROUGH ANOTHER PROCESS.
FOR EXAMPLE, THAT WOULD BE THE
VERSION THAT STAFF ARE
PROPOSING YOU ADOPT SO YOU CAN
SEE THAT THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF THINGS THAT WERE REQUESTED
TO BE WORKED THROUGH THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN COMPLETED.
THAT'S GOOD NEWS .
THAT INCLUDES THINGS IN FROM
TWENTY TWENTY TO LIKE TWENTY
ONE REZONING OF STAYTON
EISENHAUER ARE TO A LOT SIZES
SO I PLAN REVIEW THRESHOLDS AND
UPDATED STORMWATER REGULATIONS
AND MANY THINGS IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE ALTHOUGH THEY MAY
BE COMPLETE FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TABLE THERE'S STILL
STAFF WORK THAT HAS TO BE DONE
BEHIND THE SCENES ADVANCING IT
TO THE COUNCIL TABLE.
IN THE CASE OF TSAY ONE
REZONING OF WASHTENAW PLYMOUTH
PREPARING PUBLIC MEETING
MATERIALS AND THE LIKE FOR
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
SO PLEASE KEEP THAT IN MIND IS
YOUR LOOKING AT THESE IF YOU
THINK OH THAT'S CLEAR TO
OVERSEE OR WE'VE SEEN THAT AT
THE TABLE THERE MAY STILL BE A
LOT OF ACTIVITY THAT HAS TO
HAPPEN IN THE DEPARTMENT TO
MOVE THOSE FORWARD.
SO TWENTY TWENTY FOUR IS THE
LATEST YEAR AND THAT IS BECAUSE
IT COINCIDES WITH SO MANY
THINGS FROM THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN UPDATE AND WE'VE TRIED TO
IDENTIFY AND SEPARATE OUT
THINGS THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO
TACKLE COMPREHEND EVELY AS PART
OF ONE EFFORT THROUGH THAT PLAN
USING THE LRC AS A SOUND BOARD
AND ALSO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE AS A SOUNDING
BOARD I AM HAPPY TO ENTERTAIN
ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE OR
OR SPEAK TO OTHER ITEMS THAT
ARE IN THE PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU.
AND SO TO CLARIFY THE PROPOSED
MOTION WOULD BE THAT THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY ADOPTS THE TWENTY TWENTY
THREE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION WORK
PROGRAM.
I'M LOOKING FOR A MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS MOVI AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WAITZ.
WE'RE INTO DISCUSSION
RIGHT?
I NONET I JUST HAVE STAFF ABOUT
MOVING THE ZONE WHICH IS
SOMETHING THAT I HAVE ADVOCATED
FOR SINCE I'VE SAT AT THE TABLE
AND OUR WORK FOR NEXT YEAR IS
THERE IS IT JUST STAFF CAPACITY
TO START TARGETING THAT IS THAT
HAS PLACED IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR AS OPPOSED TO THE ONE
HUNDRED THIS YEAR ACTUALLY THAT
IS THE CURRENT TENTATIVE TOPIC
THAT STAFF PROPOSED FOR THE
NOVEMBER ORACY MEETING.
SO WE ARE IMAGINING THOSE
DISCUSSIONS TO START THIS YEAR
SINCE WE'RE ON AND EVERY OTHER
MONTH SCHEDULE RIGHT NOW MAKING
TIME FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE WHICH SHARES TWO
MEMBERS WITH THE ORACY REALLY
THE NOVEMBER DISCUSSION IS JUST
GOING TO BE WRAPPING OUR HEADS
AROUND IT HOW TO CHUNK UP
SECTIONS, DIVIDE WORK, THINK
ABOUT IT.
SO ESSENTIALLY WE'LL BE
STARTING IN TWENTY TWENTY THREE
BUT IT'S NOT IT'S GOING TO BE
MORE ADMINISTRATIVE IN THE
SKYLINE BEHIND MY HOUSE.
OK, I SEE.
THANK YOU
.
I WANTED TO BRING UP A PLAN LT
I THINK AT THIS TABLE WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT THE UTILITY OF IT
THAT IS TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND
I CERTAINLY WANT TO BE MINDFUL
OF THE AMOUNT OF WORK WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO DO FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ACTUALLY
AT THE BEGINNING I DID SAY HEY
ACTUALLY LET'S BE MEASURED AND
REASONABLE ABOUT THE AMOUNT
OF TARGETS WE SET BUT THE ONES
IN TWENTY TWENTY FIVE I THINK
THAT ONE STICKS OUT TO ME IS
ONE THAT ONE AT LEAST GET THE
BALL ROLLING TO SEE WHAT THE
FRAMEWORK COULD LOOK LIKE.
THAT BEING SAID I DO RECOGNIZE
THAT THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS
GOING TO ENTAIL QUITE A LOT
OF UDC UPDATES AS THEY
PRESCRIBE CERTAIN NORMATIVE
WAYS TO UPDATE THAT.
SO JUST ONE TO SAY PLAN C IF IT
HAS ANY KIND OF TRACTION WITH
FOLKS THAT MAY WANT TO SEE THAT
.
I DO SEE THAT AS BEING A PRETTY
MEASURABLE STEP INTO ALLOWING
PROPERTY OWNERS TO HAVE
INCREMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS
WITHOUT TRIGGERING SUCH LARGE
LARGE SCALE UPDATES.
JUST THAT OUT THERE,
COMMISSIONER.
I THINK THE THAT COMMENT MAKES
ME SENSIBLE ABOUT SEQUENCING
AND TIMING FOR THINGS A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THE MAJORITY
THE LACK OF DRAFTING OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN HAPPENS IN
TWENTY FOUR WHICH THEN I WOULD
ASSUME THAT TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
IS ABOUT EFFECTING THE CHANGES
WHICH I SUGGEST IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN B THE PLAN
DOESN'T ACTUALLY MEAN THAT IT
HAPPENED SINCE THEN WE HAVE
SPACE IN TWENTY TWENTY FIVE TO
DOING THINGS WHILE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS COMING
INTO BEING KNOWING THAT TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE ARE GOING TO BE
VERY CONSUMED WITH ENACTING THE
PLAN IF THAT MAKES ANY SENSE AS
OPPOSED TO CLEARING TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR OUT TO WORK ON THE
PLAN.
SO MAYBE MY OTHER QUESTION IS
HOW MUCH OF THAT IS GOING TO
HAPPEN ON TUESDAY EVENING'S IF
THAT MAKES ANY SENSE OR IS IT
ABOUT STAFF CAPACITY IN TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR TO BE DOING
ANYTHING OTHER THAN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN?
SINCE MY QUESTION MAKES SENSE I
WOULD SAY IN CRAFTING THAT
STAFF CAPACITY WAS A HUGE
CONSIDERATION AND WE WOULD LOVE
TO TACKLE SO MANY THINGS IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE COMMISSION
THAT ARE ON THIS LIST AND THAT
SAY TWENTY TWENTY FIVE PLUS BUT
IT HAS BEEN CHALLENGING WITH
THE I MEAN ONE ONE THING THAT'S
GOOD IS AND I KNOW IS OF SO
MUCH IMPORTANCE TO THIS BODY IS
INCREASING NEW HOUSING IN THE
COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE A LARGE VOLUME
OF DEVELOPMENT REVIEW RIGHT NOW
AND STAFF ARE WE ACTUALLY HAVE
EXPANDED PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
CONTRACT THAT WAS ON CALL TO
HELP TO PICK UP SOME WORK
ANCILLARY TO THAT YOU ALL KNOW
THAT WE ARE ACTIVELY HIRING TO
REPLACE ROOTIE OR PLANNER CON.
SO BEING ABLE TO MEANINGFULLY
ENGAGE STAFF IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WITH A VERY
HIGH WORKLOAD WAS THE PRIMARY
CONSIDERATION IN READJUSTS
THESE VARIOUS ITEMS AND IN
PARTICULAR SITE PLAN WAS
DISCUSSED AS BEING A HEAVY LIFT
WHICH IS WHY IT WAS MOVED.
SO THIS IS A DISCUSSION I'M I'M
OPEN TO YOUR FEEDBACK.
I DO THINK THAT WHAT IS BEFORE
YOU TODAY REFLECTS WHAT STAFF
THINK IS STILL IN A STRETCH
SPACE BUT REALISTIC AND GIVES
THE OPPORTUNITY TO ENGAGE
MEANINGFULLY IN THE DETAILS
OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
DISCUSSIONS ADDING ADDITIONAL
REARRANGING STUFF.
WE CAN TRY IT BUT I WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT WHAT WE HAVE ON
PAPER IS SOMETHING THAT E THE
COMMISSION CAN FEEL CONFIDENT
ABOUT AS WELL AS STAFF.
THANK YOU.
THE CONTEXT HELPS AND EVEN JUST
HEARING THAT THERE'S A HIGH
VOLUME OF DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS
IN THE PIPELINE, I'M ALSO
NOTICING THAT IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LIST IS
ANALYSIS OF AFFORDABILITY PLUS
CITY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
PLUS REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY
WHICH I FEEL LIKE SAY PLAN SITS
IN THERE LIKE THERE ARE CERTAIN
ASPECTS OF SITE PLAN LIKE THAT
HOPEFULLY WILL BE PART OF THE
COMPLAINT PROCESS AS WELL.
SO I THINK THAT EVEN THOUGH THE
SPREADSHEET HAS CELLS WITH
BOUNDARIES THAT THESE THINGS
ARE GOING TO ACTUALLY MIX QUITE
A BIT.
SO THANK YOU.
REMEMBER THIS I JUST WANTED TO
SAY THAT I WAS HAPPY TO SEE
CORRIDOR DESIGN STANDARDS IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LIST
BECAUSE I WASN'T AWARE THAT
THAT WAS GOING TO BE ABLE TO BE
MEANINGFULLY PART OF THE PLAN
BECAUSE IT SEEMS LIKE IT'S A
BIG AND THAT IT MIGHT IN SOME
CITIES IT HAS A PLAN OF ITS AND
SO DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA HOW
EXTENSIVE THAT DISCUSSION MIGHT
BE?
I KNOW THAT WE ARE ENTERTAINING
A SEPARATE SCOPE THAT WOULD BE
THROUGH THE SAME CONSULTANT
TEAM BUT AS AN ADD ON TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO DOVE INTO
WHAT A BUILD OUT OF TCE ONE
QUARTER OUR STANDARDS AND
IMPROVEMENTS COULD LOOK LIKE
PICKING ONE CORRIDOR AND HAVING
A MORE ROBUST CORRIDOR VISION
IN ADDITION, WE HAVE ALSO ASKED
AS PART OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN SCOPE TO IDENTIFY A MODEL
HIERARCHY AND SOME BASIC STREET
DESIGN PRINCIPLES THAT WOULD
APPLY TO ALL STREETS THAT MAY
NOT BE CAPTURED IN THE MOVING
TOGETHER TOWARD VISION ZERO
PLAN WHICH IDENTIFIES A LOT
OF STRATEGIES BUT DOES NOT
PLACE THEM INTO OK THESE
STREETS TRY THESE BUT THESE
ONES PROBABLY WHICH PITS
DIFFERENT MODES AS PRIORITIES
AND SOMETIMES YOU JUST CAN'T DO
IT ALL.
YOU HAVE TO DIVIDE YOUR NETWORK
TO MEET A LOT OF DIFFERENT
NEEDS SO BEYOND THOSE TWO
THINGS IDENTIFYING MODEL
PRIORITIES AND HIERARCHY BEYOND
DOWNTOWN AND BEYOND THE
SEPARATE SCOPE FOR A TICK ONE
CORRIDOR VISION STARTING WITH A
QUARTER TO BE DETERMINED WE
WOULD HAVE TO HAVE FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON HOW ROBUST, HOW
DETAILED WE GET IF WE'RE GOING
TO ASK FOR A GUIDE THAT'S KIND
OF A SEPARATE DELIVERABLE
OUTSIDE OF SCOPE.
SO IT COULD BE CONSIDERED
OUTSIDE OF SCOPE BUT I KNOW
THAT THERE IS A LOT OF INTEREST
IN THAT BECAUSE DEVELOPMENT IS
MOVING BEYOND LARGE DEVELOPMENT
IS COMING BEFORE THIS TABLE
MOVING OUTSIDE OF OUR
TRADITIONAL BOUNDARIES.
SO WE ARE HAVING DISCUSSIONS
WITH THE DDA AS THEY ARE COMING
UP ON THEIR RENEWAL TALKING
ABOUT HOW TO SYNC CONVERSATIONS
AROUND GREATER DOWNTOWN
STREETS.
WHAT IS EXPECTED DESIGN WISE IN
COORDINATION WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN?
I HOPE THAT THAT ANSWERS YOUR
QUESTION.
YEAH, IT'S HELPFUL.
I'M DELIGHTED TO HEAR THAT
YOU'RE ENTERTAINING THE
POSSIBILITY OF A SEPARATE
CONTRACT TO GO INTO MORE DETAIL
BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE WE'LL BEGIN
TO GET SOME ITEMIZATION OF THE
JUDGMENTS THAT WE'RE MAKING
MORE RESPONSIVELY AND
REACTIVELY TO INDIVIDUAL
PROJECTS, WHICH IS WHAT IS
UNCOMFORTABLE DRIBBLE.
SO I THINK IT'S GREAT THAT
WE'RE STARTING TO MOVE TOWARDS
STANDARDS THERE.
ONE THING THAT MAY ALSO MAKE
SENSE IS IN ONE AND I CAN
SUGGEST AS TO MANAGER LENAR IS
IN ONE OF THE NEAR TERM
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
TAKE A LOOK AT THIS LIST
OF ITEMS.
DID I TAKE YOUR TENDERS RULES
AND JUST TALK THROUGH HOW AND
EXACTLY IN WHAT WAYS THESE
ITEMS THAT ARE OF PRIORITY TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION WOULD
BE TACKLED THROUGHOUT THE
PROCESS?
YOU TOOK MY THUNDER.
THAT'S A I WAS CURIOUS WHAT THE
ORDER OF OPERATIONS WAS LIKE IF
THIS HAD BEEN COMPARED TO THEIR
SCOPE OF WORK.
IT'S GREAT WHEN WE WERE PUTTING
THIS TOGETHER OVER THE SUMMER
WE SAW COMMONALITIES BUT IF THE
CONSULTANTS DON'T KNOW THAT
THIS IS WHAT WE HOPE TO THAT
THAT THE ENGAGEMENT PROCESS
WE'RE HOPING TO INFORM THESE
KIND OF THINGS.
I WOULD JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
OF THAT.
AND IF THERE ARE THINGS THAT
NEED TO BE PULLED OUT AS
SEPARATE CONTRACTS BECAUSE TO
THE POINT THAT COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS MADE TO LIKE I DON'T I
KIND OF THOUGHT THAT WE PULLED
THIS OVER TO THE SIDE HERE.
WE THOUGHT THIS WOULD ALLOW US
TO HIT THE GROUND RUNNING A LOT
BETTER IN TWENTY TWENTY.
IT'S NOT THAT EACH OF THESE
TAKES A REALLY LONG TIME.
WE'RE SORT OF DOING A LOT
OF THE DEVELOPMENT FOR THIS
STUFF IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
WHILE IT'S FRESH IN OUR HEAD
TOO.
AND SO I GET I'M NOT THE
SUBCOMMITTEE FOR THE FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BUT I THINK
WOULD BE WORTH THAT
CONVERSATION ABOUT HOW YOU DO
THAT AND AND WHICH OF THESE
THINGS ARE REALISTIC IN THEIR
EXISTING SCOPE.
THE OTHER THING THAT I WOULD
JUST ADD IS THAT WE'RE ALMOST
DONE WITH TWENTY TWENTY THREE
AND WE DON'T HAVE DATES FOR ANY
OF THESE THINGS AND SOME
OF THESE THINGS HAVE BEEN IN
HERE SINCE JANUARY.
THE ONE THAT STRIKES MY EYE IS
SOLAR AND I DID THROW UNDER THE
BUS AGAIN AT THE MICHIGAN
ASSOCIATION OF PLANNING
CONFERENCE BECAUSE IT'S CRAZY
WE STILL DON'T ALLOW WITH
SEPARATE RULES FOR SOLAR THEN
FOR GRANTED OR FOR ANY OTHER
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE AND THAT'S
TRICKY TO DO.
SO THAT'S
BUT THAT'S NOT THE
ONLY ONE THAT'S BEEN HERE FOR A
WHILE.
SO I'M JUST HOPEFUL THAT I
BELIEVE THAT THE SOLAR
READINESS JUST HAS TO HAVE SOME
LANGUAGE AND MATERIALS PREPARED
TO ADVANCE TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT IT'S
ALREADY BEEN DISCUSSED AND
CLEARED THROUGH THIS BODY SO
THAT IS AN EXAMPLE OF SOME
OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE TASKS
THAT CAN PUT A LONG LIST
OF ITEMS IN THE WEEDS AND THEY
HAVE THAT PARTICULAR ITEM.
I'M HAPPY TO TAKE THAT FEEDBACK
BACK TO THE TEAM.
I EMAILED A COUPLE OF TIPS THAT
WE HAVE ACTUALLY REVIEWED THAT
ITEM AND ITS STATUS AS RECENTLY
AS YESTERDAY.
SO IT IS NOT FORGOTTEN
.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
WHICH
I THINK THAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL FOR ME THAT YOU ARE
OPEN TO.
THIS IS SOME KIND OF ESTIMATE
OF STAFF TIME BECAUSE FOR ABOUT
KNOWING IT IT'S SORT OF A BLACK
HOLE.
SO YOU KNOW, I'M LOOKING AT FOR
INSTANCE, STUDENT
REPRESENTATION COMMISSION.
HOW MUCH STAFF TIME IS THAT?
IS THAT A BYELAWS CHANGE?
WE JUST HAD OUR CONVERSATION
ABOUT IT AND THEN HE AT THE
TABLE MAKE A RECOMMENDED ACTION
THROUGH A MOTION AT THE TABLE
AND THEN IT GOES ON TO LEGAL
AND THEY COME BACK AND SAY YES,
YOU CAN DO THIS NOW THEN IT
GOES TO COUNCIL OR IS THERE
SOMETHING THAT IS NOT CLEAR
ABOUT THAT CONVERSATION THAT
NEEDS STAFF INITIATION TIME
RESEARCH PRESENTATION IN ORDER
FOR IT TO COME TO THE TABLE SO
THOSE KINDS OF THINGS LIKE
GOING THROUGH THE LIST LIKE
THERE ARE THINGS WE COULD
CHERRY PICK OUT THAT WE COULD
DO AT THE TABLE BUT I DON'T
KNOW WHAT I DON'T KNOW WHICH IS
RIGHT THE STAFF COMPONENT
OF THAT ITEM IS OR WHAT STAFF
FEEL LIKE THEIR OBLIGATION TO
THAT ITEM AND I DON'T WANT TO
GET AHEAD OF LIKE I'M AN
OPTIMIST.
I LOOK AT THINGS AND EVERY
PROBLEM IS SOLVABLE BUT YOU SAY
IT IS WITH LIMITED RESOURCES
AND TIME SO ANY INSIGHT ON THAT
AS WE LOOK AT THIS WOULD BE
HELPFUL AND THAT'S OUR THINKING
ABOUT THAT NEEDS TO BE PART
OF THAT PLAN WHICH IS A
DOCUMENT THAT WE ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR AT LEAST.
AND SO I SEE THAT IT'S COMING
IN DECEMBER.
THERE ARE SOME THINGS THAT ARE
ON MY SORT OF WISH LIST TO GO
INTO THE C IP AND SO IF THERE
IS ALREADY A PRE EXISTING
PROCEDURAL DOCUMENT TO HELP ME
GET PREPARED FOR THAT MEETING,
I CAN DO MY WORK AND THEN BRING
THAT TO A MEETING TO SAY HEY
HERE ARE THE THREE THINGS THAT
I'VE DONE THIS LITTLE BIT
OF RESEARCH TO HELP THIS MOVE
ALONG BECAUSE WE DO HAVE A LOT
OF THINGS THAT WE NEED TO DO
AND IT DOES FEEL LIKE IT'S
TAKING A WHILE.
BUT I APPRECIATE THE INSIGHT
THAT YOU'RE GIVING WITH STAFF
CONSTRAINED TIME I GUESS I
TOTALLY APPRECIATE THAT
FEEDBACK.
JUST TAKING THE EXAMPLE
OF STUDENT REPRESENTATION IN
THE COMMISSION IN MY MIND NOT
CONSULT PRIMARILY ITS PLANNER
TO LEO AND MYSELF STAFFING THE
ORACY WHO ARE TALKING THROUGH
AND ADVANCING SOME OF THESE
THINGS AND THEN WE BRING IN
OTHER MEMBERS THE TEAM AS
NEEDED MANAGER LEONARD IS ALSO
PRETTY INVOLVED BUT FOR STUDENT
REPRESENTATION ON THE
COMMISSION MY ASSUMPTION WOULD
BE PLANNER TO LEO AND I WOULD
LOOK AT EXAMPLES OF OTHER YOUTH
REPRESENTATION IN OTHER
COMMITTEES WE PREPARE A MEMO OR
OTHER MATERIALS TO DISCUSS THE
ORDINANCE PROVISIONS COMMITTEE
,TRY TO REACH A CONSENSUS
OF WHAT TO DO WITH THAT ITEM TO
BRING IT TO THE FULL BODY AND
THEN FURTHER MATERIALS ARE ARE
PREPARED TO DO SOMETHING
SPECIFIC AND AND LONGER LASTING
DISCUSSION AT THE TABLE.
UM, IF YOU COULD JUST HAVE A
QUICK DISCUSSION THE TABLE BUT
I GUESS IT DEPENDS ON WHAT
LEVEL OF DEPTH AND WHAT
EXPECTATIONS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS FOR THESE ITEMS
TOO BECAUSE WE IF IT'S ON THE
LIST WE TAKE IT PRETTY
SERIOUSLY AND WE WANT TO
APPROACH THEM ALL INDEPENDENTLY
WITH THE THE UNIQUE RESEARCH
THAT EACH REQUIRES.
SO FOR THAT ONE WE WOULD
PROBABLY WANT TO DO A PEER
REVIEW, SEE IF THERE A
LITERATURE BRIEF LITERATURE
REVIEW MAYBE FROM AMERICAN
PLANNING ASSOCIATION OR SIMILAR
.
SO SOMETHING LIKE THAT I WOULD
IMAGINE MIGHT TAKE IN ADDITION
TO PREPARING FOR SUBCOMMITTEES
OR FOR THIS COMMITTEE LIKE TEN
HOURS OF STAFF TIME IT DEPENDS
IF ALSO IT MAY IMPLICATE
CHANGES TO YOUR BYLAWS.
IT MIGHT BE SOMETHING THAT FOR
SOME REASON OR ANOTHER HAS TO
BE MODIFIED AT THE COUNCIL
TABLE.
SOMETIMES THAT HAPPENS WHEN WE
START TO GET INTO THINGS
RELATED TO BYLAWS.
UM, I WISH THAT SOME OF THESE
WERE SIMPLER BUT EVEN A SMALL
SEEMINGLY STRAIGHTFORWARD ITEM
LIKE THAT CAN QUICKLY BECOME
MANY HOURS OF MULTIPLE PLANNERS
AND STAFF WORK SO MAYBE WE NEED
TO CLARIFY WITH INNERWORKINGS
SESSION WITH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WHAT IS INTENDED FOR
THE VARIOUS ITEMS THAT ARE ON
HERE.
MAYBE WE HAVEN'T GONE AS IN
DEPTH ABOUT YOUR EXPECTATIONS
FOR SOME OF THESE OR AT LEAST
SINCE I'VE JOINED THE
DEPARTMENT I HOPE YEAH SURE.
I AGREE.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
RESPONSE AND I THINK TO COME
TOWARDS YOU WITHOUT CREATING A
LOT OF WORK COLORS WORK GREAT.
SO THIS THING IS GOING TO TAKE
TEN HOURS OR LESS AND IT'S A
COLOR THIS THING'S GOING TO
TAKE 20 TO 40 HOURS AND IT'S A
COLOR AND THIS THING'S GOING TO
TAKE MORE THAN FORTY HOURS AND
THEN YOU COULD INTENSIFY THAT
WITH THE NUMBER OF PLANNERS
THAT GO INTO IT JUST SO THAT
LOOKING AT IT I DON'T MAKE
ASSUMPTIONS THAT YOU HAVE
EMBEDDED KNOWLEDGE ON AND THEN
I THINK I APPRECIATED YOUR
CLARIFICATION THAT WE HAVEN'T
TALKED ABOUT WHAT OUR SORT
OF RESPONSIBILITIES ARE BECAUSE
I IMAGINE WITH THE COLLECTION
THAT WE HAVE AT THE TABLE WE
COULD DO A PEER REVIEW.
WE COULD ROLL UP A QUICK
SUBCOMMITTEE ON STUDENT
PARTICIPATION AND WE COULD DO
ALL THAT MAYBE FIVE TO SEVEN
HOURS OF THAT LEGWORK AND THEN
GIVE IT TO YOU AND THEN YOU
TAKE OUR EFFORT AND THEN COME
BACK TO US AND SAY BASED ON THE
PEER REVIEW FROM THE
SUBCOMMITTEE, THESE ARE OUR
THREE RECOMMENDATIONS.
SO SOMETHING LIKE THAT WHICH
SEEMS FINE DOESN'T SEEM LIKE
SUPER DIFFICULT TO ME.
AGAIN, I'M AN OPTIMIST.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT I COULD SAY
LIKE OH IDEAL FOR ADDING SEVEN
HOURS TO MY VOLUNTEER TIME TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO HELP
MOVE THAT ONE ALONG SO THAT IT
COMES OFF OUR WORK PLAN AND WE
ALSO GET IT DONE THAT KIND
OF THING.
SO JUST THE LIKE SINCE WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THIS ONE AND I
HAVE A LOT OF ZONING ONES THAT
I LOOK TO DO WITH THAT TOO BUT
I MIGHT BE BELABORING THAT
POINT.
THANK YOU.
AND I DO APPRECIATE THE DEPTH
OF RESEARCH AND CONSIDERATION
EACH POINT GOES INTO.
I THINK THAT BY VIRTUE
OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE IS
ANYTHING THAT DOESN'T REALLY
GET COMPLETED THIS YEAR WILL
LITERALLY STACK ON A TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR.
I KIND OF LOOK AT THE TWENTY
FOUR POINT FOUR HEADING BEING
KIND OF AT THE TOP OF THE
TWENTY THREE SO BE MINDFUL BUT
I HAVE NO PROPOSED CHANGES AT
THIS POINT TO THE WORK PLAN.
DOES ANYBODY ELSE HAVE ANY
PROPOSED CHANGES?
IT'S NOT I WOULD LIKE TO ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PCI I AND THE POST MOTION
CARRIES.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE HEADING ON TO OTHER
BUSINESS SECTION B THIS IS THE
HOUSING GRANT LETTER OF SUPPORT
STARTING WITH A STAFF
PRESENTATION MAX KELLY, IF I
MAY CHAIR JUST ON THE PREVIOUS
ITEM STEPH ARE HAPPY TO REVISIT
THIS MORE REGULARLY OR HAVE A
RENEWED DISCUSSION WITH OUR C
AND I APPRECIATE THAT THE
COMMENTS OF RELATIVE TO THE
PROGRESS GRANT LETTER
OF SUPPORT IN TONIGHT'S PACKET
YOU'LL FIND A PROPOSED LETTER
OF SUPPORT FOR HUDS HOUSING
GRANT FUNDS.
WE'D LIKE FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO CONSIDER
ENDORSING THE CITY'S
APPLICATION FOR THIS POT
OF FUNDING.
THERE IS ABOUT EIGHTY FIVE
MILLION DOLLARS BEING MADE
AVAILABLE FEDERALLY FOR
MUNICIPALITIES AND UNITS
OF GOVERNMENT.
WE ARE ASKING FOR APPROXIMATELY
FIVE MILLION OF THAT.
THE OPPORTUNITY CLOSES AT THE
END OF THE MONTH.
YPSILANTI CITY COUNCIL IS
MEETING TONIGHT TO DECIDE IF
THEY WILL BE JOINING THE CITY.
VANOVER IN OUR APPLICATION BOTH
COMMUNITIES INTEND TO REVIEW
ZONING TO ENCOURAGE MORE
HOUSING.
WE'RE ALSO PARTNERING
PARTNERING WITH THE HOUSING
COMMISSION SOME OF THE PROPOSED
USES OF THE FUNDING APPLICATION
INCLUDE IMPLEMENT THE
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN INVESTING
IN PATTERN BOOK HOUSING FOR
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND
DUPLEX UPDATING AT LEAST FOR
ANN ARBOR
IN YPSILANTI.
THE INFORMATION THAT CAME OUT
OF THE TWENTY FIFTEEN WASHTENAW
ECONOMIC EQUITY ANALYSIS.
WE'LL ALSO BE LOOKING AT
IMPROVING DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
PROCESSES TO FACILITATE EASIER
BUILD OF HOUSING IN STRUCTURE
ASSESSMENT SUPPORT AND
REMAINING FUNDS TO WOULD BE
ALLOCATED TO FUNDING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING ON CITY OWNED
PROPERTIES.
THERE IS AN UNDER TERMINE MATCH
AT THIS POINT IF YOU MATCH IT
AT LEAST 50 PERCENT YOU GET THE
MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF MATCH POINTS
.
HOWEVER THERE'S NO MINIMUM
MATCH BUT THE CITY APPLICATION
THE THE TEAM IS PROPOSING TO
MAYBE MATCH AT A THREE TO FIVE
MILLION DOLLAR LEVEL SO A FIFTY
ONE PERCENT MATCH AND THAT
FUNDING WILL LIKELY COME FROM
AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLAGE,
POTENTIALLY OTHER FINANCING
AVAILABLE THROUGH THE ENTIRE
HOUSING COMMISSION.
SO WE REQUEST THAT YOU CONSIDER
THE MOTION TO AUTHORIZE
SECRETARY WISCH TO SIGN IN,
SEND THIS LETTER OF SUPPORT.
THANK YOU.
THE PROPOSED MOTION IS MOTION
TO SUPPORT THE APPLICATION TO
THE CITY OF THE UNIVERSE FOR
APARO HOUSING FUNDS AND
AUTHORIZE THE SECRETARY TO SIGN
THE LETTER ON BEHALF OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER KNOWLES AND THEN
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH THE SECOND
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER CAN CATCHING SOME TYPOS
SO CAN I DO THIS NIT PICKY OR
YOU WANT ME TO DO IT LATER?
OK, SO AS A REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE CITY OF AN URBAN
PLANNING COMMISSION WE SUPPORT
EFFORTS TO INCREASE THE NUMBER
OF ACCESSIBLE AND AVAILABLE
HOUSING UNITS IN OUR COMMUNITY
.
I'M NOT SURE AS A
REPRESENTATIVE YEAH.
OR EVEN IN THE ACTUAL LETTER.
YES, THIS IS A SECOND SENTENCE
.
YES.
IT DOES NOT QUITE MAKE SENSE TO
ME.
YOU KURDS AND THE MOTION TO
WELL BECAUSE THE MOTION SAYS
SUPPORT THE APPLICATION AND TO
SIGN THE LETTER ON BEHALF
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION YOU
COULD SAY I THINK TYPICALLY
THAT SAYING INCLUSIVE
OF SCRIVNER ERRORS I DID NOT
PERSONALLY PREPARE THIS ITEM.
YEP.
SO I HAVE TO FAMILIARIZE MYSELF
WITH THE LANGUAGE NOT NOT
THROWING ANYONE UNDER THE BUS
AND I DISLIKE THE SCRIVNER
AREAS FOR YOU AND THEN YOU
FIGURE OUT WHAT'S TRYING TO BE
OF ONE MIND WHAT WOULD MAKE IT
MORE UPDATE THAT SOMETHING IT'S
JUST AS A REPRESENTATIVE WE
SUPPORT I MEAN WE READ AS A
MEMBER OF THIS GROUP WE SUPPORT
HER AS A REPRESENTATIVE
OF GROUP X.
WE SUPPORT COULD GO EITHER WAY
.
WHAT ARE YOUR OTHER THERE WAS
ONE AREA OF YEAH THAT'S
POSSIBLE THERE PARAGRAPH THE
SURROUNDING AREAS.
YEAH THAT'S OK.
SO THERE IS ONE OF THEM.
YEAH IT'S AREA WHEREAS SHOULD
BE BARRIERS.
THANK YOU SIR.
SIR COMMISSIONER I'M SO SORRY.
PERHAPS AS REPRESENTATIVES
OF THE CITY OF PLANNING
COMMISSION WE THOUGHT I COULD
GO WITH THAT THAT THAT SOUNDS
BETTER CHANGE AS A
REPRESENTATIVE TO AS
REPRESENTATIVES OF I THINK SO I
MEAN IT'S LIKE THAT YEAH
BECAUSE WAITED BUT HE'S SIGNING
IT ON OUR BEHALF RIGHT.
YES YOU ARE YES.
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE DOING
AUTHORIZING ME TO SEND THIS
LETTER ON OUR BEHALF BECAUSE I
WANT TO MISSION WE TELL YOU YOU
CAN'T THE OTHER WAY YOU DO IT
THE OTHER WAY TO DO IT WOULD BE
AS A REPRESENTATIVE I AFFIRM
THAT WE SUPPORT EFFORTS.
WE YOU PUT THAT INTO AS A
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE CITY THEN
OUR PLANNING COMMISSION I
AFFIRM THAT WE SUPPORT EFFORTS
IN THAT AND THEN AS
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
IDENTIFIED THIRD PARA SECOND
SENTENCE IT SHOULD BE REMOVE
BARRIERS TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
BECAUSE SURELY THERE'S MORE
THAN ONE ONE IS THE ONE IT'S
ONE OF THOSE WHERE WE CAN
DEFINITELY MAKE THOSE CHANGES.
I I DON'T THINK THAT IT WOULD
BE NECESSARY TO SPECIFY THAT IN
THE MOTION BUT WE'RE HAPPY TO
MAKE THOSE I JUST WANTED TO
YES.
OH I GET IT.
I'M REALLY INTO EDITING MYSELF
DO IT ALL THE TIME.
I'M COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
I JUST HAVE ONE QUICK QUESTION
SINCE I'M PUTTING MYSELF IN
COMMISSIONER RIGHT TO CHOOSE
PRETENDING THAT I'M THE ONE
SIGNING THIS AND WANTING TO
MAKE SURE THAT IT MAKES SENSE I
CALL IT THE BARRIERS ONE I'M
ASSUMING IN THE APPLICATION
IT'S IT'S INDICATED THAT WE ARE
GOING THROUGH A COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS AND THAT IS
DESCRIBED BECAUSE READING THE
LETTER IT WAS JUST SORT OF LIKE
THROWN OUT THERE WITH NO
CONTEXT.
IT IS IT'S SPECIFICALLY ONE
OF THE FUNDING REQUEST IS TO
IMPLEMENT OUTCOMES OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
OK, TO MAKE SURE I THOUGHT SO
BY LOOKING AT THE POWERPOINT
BUT I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE TO
MAKE IT CLEAR IN THE LETTER IF
YOU LIKE I THINK IT'S OK UNLESS
OTHER PEOPLE HAVE THOUGHT I
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WAS
SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSED IN THE
APPLICATION.
IT WILL BE IT'S A CORE PIECE
OF THAT FUNDING REQUEST.
THANK YOU.
OVERALL I THINK THIS IS GREAT
PERSONAL SO I WOULD BE IN FULL
SUPPORT OF THIS AND SO OTHER
THAN THE SMALL KIND OF CLERICAL
CLEANUP'S AND WE JUST WANT TO
HELP YOU MAKE IT AS BEST AS
POSSIBLE SO WE CAN SUCCEED IN
THE ENDEAVOR.
SO WITH THAT I SUPPOSE IS THERE
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION WHILE
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
SAY I OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES I'M GOING TO MOVE OUT
OF SECTION ELEVEN I THIS IS A
THIS IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP AT
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS SO TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR AND I HAVE BY
PHONE OR USING THESE NINE
FEATURE VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER MEETING AND NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX SIX SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT ALLOWING
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A WHITE AREA SO
THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENT SO THERE ANY
PERSON THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS TIME THERE ARE NO HANDS
RAISED REMOTE LEADER AND OH
SORRY I WAS SEEING ONE.
WE ARE MOVING ON TO CLOSING
PUBLIC COMMENT ABOUT THE
JOURNEY COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS COMMISSION WHICH I
JUST HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT HOW
WE ARE DOING OUR PUBLIC
COMMENTS ABOUT THK ONE AND AS A
MAYBE AN INDICATOR OF HOW IT
MIGHT COME FORWARD FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND I WONDER
,RICHARD, HOW TO DO THAT.
SO THE NOVEMBER FIRST ONE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR PARLIAMENT
WILL FOLLOW A SIMILAR FORMAT TO
OTHER PUBLIC HEARINGS THAT COME
BEFORE THIS BODY.
I'M SORRY.
LET ME CLARIFY THAT THE ONES
THAT WE DO IN THE COMMUNITY OK,
SO HOW ARE THOSE BEING MANAGED?
YES.
SO THE RECENT OCTOBER 12TH
MEETING THERE WAS AT TREVOR
WHAT BRANCH LIBRARY WAS AN OPEN
HOUSE FORMAT WITH A SCHEDULED
PRESENTATION.
SO THERE WERE MAPS THAT WERE
PRINTED OUT IN LARGE FORMAT PUT
ON EASELS THERE ARE THREE STAFF
MEMBERS AVAILABLE TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS.
WE WERE IN THE MEETING ROOM
EARLY AND WE STAYED AFTER THE
PRESENTATION WE FIELDED
QUESTIONS FROM THE COMMUNITY
AND ALSO OFFERED OPPORTUNITY
FOR THEM TO FOLLOW UP WITH
THOSE IN BETWEEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND ALSO ANNOUNCING THE
UPCOMING PUBLIC HEARING.
SO WE GAVE OPPORTUNITIES
THROUGH PHONE EMAIL AND
DIRECTED THEM TO THE PROJECT
WEBSITE THAT IS THE GENERAL
FORMAT FOR WASHTENAW.
THERE WERE I THINK AREAS THAT
WE IDENTIFIED FOR IMPROVEMENT
THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO DO
DIFFERENTLY AS STAFF.
COMING UP ON THE WASHTENAW
MEETING WE ARE LOOKING AT
INCORPORATING MORE OF AN
INTERACTIVE EXERCISE IF
POSSIBLE AND THINKING ABOUT
JUST HAVING DIFFERENT WAYS FOR
PEOPLE TO INTERACT WITH THE
INFORMATION.
UM, YEAH.
I THINK MY QUESTION WAS IS
THERE A WAY TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK
TO STAFF ABOUT THAT IS STAFF
OPEN AND WHAT IS THE MECHANISM
TO DO THAT?
DO I DO IT AT THE TABLE BECAUSE
I DON'T I DON'T KNOW HOW THE
OPEN MEETINGS EX AFFECT ANY
COMMUNICATIONS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT TOO.
I JUST WASN'T SURE WHAT THE
RIGHT FORMAT WAS TO PROVIDE
THAT FEEDBACK.
BUT THANK YOU FOR TELLING ME
HOW IT ALL WENT.
SORRY FOR MISUNDERSTANDING.
NO NO IT'S OK.
I DIDN'T WANT TO INTERRUPT YOU
.
UM ANY COMMISSIONER IS WELCOME
TO WRITE STAFF WITH COMMENTS ON
ANYTHING PLANNING DEPARTMENT
LATER BECAUSE IT DOESN'T GET
SHARED AT SEND IT IF YOU'RE
SENDING IT AS AN OFFICIAL
COMMUNICATION TO BE CONSIDERED
BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION THEN
WE WOULD INCLUDE IT IN THE
PACKET AS RELEVANT FOR THE
UPCOMING PUBLIC HEARING.
IF YOU SAY THIS IS AN OFFICIAL
PUBLIC COMMENT THEN IT JUST NOW
SAY THAT YOU TELL ME WHAT I
SHOULD DO DIFFERENTLY.
OK, I MEAN YOU CAN READ
COMMENTS TO US AT THE TABLE.
IT IS IN THIS PART HOW DO I
GIVE FEEDBACK FOR WHAT'S COMING
AND I DON'T THINK WE HAVE A
MECHANISM FOR DOING THAT AND I
WOULD LIKE THE FEEDBACK THAT
I'M GIVING TO BE PRESENT TO THE
REST OF THE COMMISSION SO THAT
IF OTHERS AGREE OR DISAGREE
THEY CAN WEIGH IN.
AND I KNOW THERE ARE RULES
ABOUT HAVING A BUNCH
OF COMMISSIONERS RESPONDING TO
AN EMAIL BECAUSE IT BECOMES A
VIOLATION OF THE OPEN MEETINGS
ACT IF MORE THAN SIX OF YOU
RESPOND BECAUSE NOW IT'S A
MEETING THERE IS A PLAN SUB
COMMITTEE MEETING COMING UP
NEXT TUESDAY THAT IS IN ADVANCE
OF THE BUT IT'S NOT IN THE
COMPLAINT BECAUSE IT'S ON ONE
TOO MANY THINGS LIKE WHY DID I
EVEN SAY THAT?
I MEAN I'M SAYING DO IT AT THE
WORK SESSION.
I WILL HEAR YOU AND DO IT AT
THE WORK SESSION.
YES.
IF YOU WOULD LIKE WE HAVE NOT
YET PREPARED CONTENT SO SORRY
SAID IT IT WAS THAT WAS GIVEN
SO I'M JUST PULLING UP THE LIST
OF WHAT WE HAVE TENTATIVELY
SCHEDULED FOR YOUR VARIOUS
MEETINGS AND THE NEXT WORK
SESSION IS NOVEMBER THE 8TH
ACCORDING TO MY RECORDS UM SO
ON NOVEMBER 8TH WE HAVE A SKYPE
OVERVIEW, A PRESENTATION ABOUT
THE IP PROCESS AND A DRAFT
OF THE C IP IF IT'S AVAILABLE
BY THAT DATE BY KEILA COALMAN.
AND WE ALSO HAVE TENTATIVELY
SCHEDULED A PRESENTATION ON
BUILDING EFFICIENCY AND SOME
OTHER RELATED THINGS FROM THE
FROM OUTSIDE OF SUSTAINABILITY
AND INNOVATION WE CAN ADD TO
THAT AGENDA.
SO IN RIGHT NOW DURING
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
YOU WOULD LIKE TO OFFER
FEEDBACK.
YES.
ON FORMAT.
HOWEVER WE ARE SCHEDULING THE
RTC ONE MEETING FOR MID
NOVEMBER.
IT'S VERY LIKELY THE STAFF WILL
HAVE THOUGHT THROUGH THE FORMAT
FOR THAT MEETING BY THE TIME
OF THE WAS BREAKING THE RULES.
SO I WANTED TO GET BOTH SIDES
OF THE TABLE SIR.
I JUST WANTED TO BE CLEAR ABOUT
WHAT THE SALARY COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESSES WHICH IS
CLARIFICATION AND PROCEDURAL ON
THAT FOR GIVING FEEDBACK TO THE
ONE ON THE PLANET SO I CAN'T DO
IT RIGHT NOW.
SUPERCUT.
OK, IT'S SECONDS THE FORMAT
OF THE PRESENTATION WITH THE
AUDIENCE BEING ABLE TO EITHER
INTERRUPT THE PRESENTATION OR
HIJACK THE PRESENTATION I THINK
DEFEATS THE POINT OF WHAT WE
ARE TRYING TO CONVEY.
AND SO I WONDER IF THERE'S A
DIFFERENT WAY WE CAN PRESENT
THE INFORMATION WHETHER IT'S AT
TABLES WHERE WE WOULD HAVE
STAFF AT TABLES TALKING ABOUT
THE IMPACT AND THEN PEOPLE CAN
MOVE LIKE A DIRECT PROCESS
WHERE THEY CAN MOVE FROM ONE
TABLE TO ANOTHER TABLE AS
OPPOSED TO UPFRONT PRESENTATION
TO AN AUDIENCE WITH QUESTIONS
BECAUSE THERE IS PLENTY
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
THERE'S GOING TO BE A PUBLIC
HEARING AT THIS TABLE.
THERE'LL BE TWO PUBLIC HEARINGS
AT THE COUNCIL TABLE.
BUT THE CONVEYANCE OF THIS
INFORMATION IS HELPFUL TO
EVERYONE THAT'S IN THE ROOM AND
THE FORMAT THAT WAS ADOPTED
FROM THE NEIGHBORHOOD ONE
PREVENTED STAFF FROM COMPLETING
ITS PRESENTATION BECAUSE
OF TIME IN THAT SPACE AND I
THINK THAT DID DOES A
DISSERVICE TO OUR COMMUNITY
BECAUSE WE CAN'T ACTUALLY TALK
ABOUT THE THINGS THAT WE WANT
TO TALK ABOUT.
SO I JUST WANTED TO DO THAT BUT
I DIDN'T KNOW HOW AND WHETHER
IT WAS YOU AT THE TABLE.
SO NOW THAT YOU KNOW WHAT I
WANT TO TALK ABOUT IF THERE IS
A WAY TO GIVE THAT KIND
OF FEEDBACK IN THE FUTURE, IF
YOU CAN ADVISE ME ON THAT, I'LL
FOLLOW THAT PROGRAM IF THIS WAS
INAPPROPRIATE.
SO THANK YOU.
YOU CAN MAKE THAT A FORMAL
PUBLIC COMMENT AND IT WOULD BE
INCLUDED IN THE PACKET UNDER
THE COMMUNICATIONS TO THE
COMMISSION THAT WAY YOU
COMMUNICATED BOTH TO YOUR
COLLEAGUES, THE PUBLIC AND
STAFF.
IF YOU JUST WANT STAFF TO SEE
IT YOU CAN EMAIL US ANY TIME
AND WE'RE HAPPY TO TAKE THE
FEEDBACK.
HOWEVER, IF YOU WANT TO ENSURE
THAT IT'S AVAILABLE FOR BROADER
LIKE VISIBILITY THEN LETTING US
KNOW THAT IN ADDITION TO
SENDING US THE EMAIL IT WOULD
BE YOU WOULD LIKE IT TO BE
INCLUDED AS A COMMUNICATION TO
THE COMMISSION WOULD BE THE
MECHANISM TO DO THAT AND I CAN
LET YOU KNOW THAT WE'RE OF A
SIMILAR MIND.
SO THANK YOU FOR THOSE
IMPROVEMENTS SUGGESTIONS WE
WOULD ALSO LIKE TO MAKE
IMPROVEMENTS ALONG THOSE LINES.
YES.
AND IT WASN'T CRITICISM.
IT'S JUST AN OBSERVATION.
IT'S OK.
THAT'S A CRITICISM.
IT'S IT'S NOT THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANY OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS COMMISSIONER
ABRAM'S I JUST HAVE A QUESTION.
I JUST WANTED TO CONFIRM THAT
NEXT TUESDAY THE MEETING IS
BEING REPLACED WITH A PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING.
YES.
THANK YOU.
AND CAN I CONFIRM THAT I SHOULD
BE ASSUMING THAT EVERY OTHER
FOURTH TUESDAY WHICH IS THE
REALLY AMAZING CADENCE EVERY
OTHER FOURTH TUESDAY I SHOULD
BE HOLDING FOR THE COMP PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE I CAN PASS ON TO
MANAGER LEINERT THAT YOU THAT
YOU AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THAT
SUBCOMMITTEE WOULD LIKE A
REGULAR CADENCE AND ASK HIM TO
COMMUNICATE AND AND WORK THAT
OUT.
I'M NOT SURE EXACTLY OF THE
SCHEDULING AND SO DID I.
DID I MISS SOMETHING THAT I WAS
SUPPOSED TO KNOW THAT NEXT
TUESDAY WAS THE SUBCOMMITTEE
MEETING THIS I MAY NOT HAVE
BEEN COPIED ON ALL OF THE EMAIL
EXCHANGES SO I CAN'T SAY FOR
SURE IF IT IS THAT AN
INCONVENIENT DAY FOR YOU?
NO, IT'S NOT INCONVENIENT BUT I
HAVE VERY FEW OPEN EVENINGS AND
SCHEDULED A CONSTITUENT
COFFEE HOUR FOR THAT THINKING
THAT IT WAS AN OPEN EVENING.
NOW I'M GOING TO RESCHEDULE
THAT HOUR OR I'M GOING TO BE
FIVE MINUTES LATE TO THE
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING I BELIEVE
A HALF HOUR LATE FROM THAT HALF
AN HOUR AND IN THE FUTURE I
WILL MAKE THE COFFEE HOURS AT A
TIME WHERE ONE PERSON HAS
COMPLAINED THEY COULD NOT
ATTEND WHICH IS FIVE TO
SIXTEEN.
BUT IT'S JUST THINGS ARE SO
INSANE AND I FEEL TERRIBLE THAT
I IS NOT PRESENT.
IT SOUNDS LIKE A REALLY
DELIGHTFUL MEETING AND SO
THAT'S MY WORK.
BUT I WAS OUT OF TOWN.
I NEEDED A PREPLANNED VOTE AT
AT ALL RELEVANT BUT IT'S JUST
SO HARD TO BE ANYTHING WHICH
YOU KNOW BECAUSE SAME AND
FINDING A TIME VERY I MEAN SO
WE WOULD BE CONCERNED IF WE
WANTED TO DO EVERY OTHER
TUESDAY I CAN CERTAINLY BRING
THAT BACK AND SUGGEST BUT I
THINK WE NEED TO DO MORE
FREQUENTLY THAN THAT.
UH GIVEN THE AMOUNT OF WORK.
YES, I KNOW.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO DO THAT, I
WILL TELL YOU I JUST NEED TO
KNOW UM, ABOUT IT.
I WILL ASK FOR SOME ATTEMPT AT
MORE REGULAR CADENCE AND
ADVANCE NOTICE FOR THOSE.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS I THAN BEING
EVERYWHERE ALL AT ONCE.
IF NOTHING ELSE I'M GOING TO
MOVE THE LAST ITEM WHICH IS
ADJOURNMENT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I WANTED
TURNED